:tocdepth: 3

==========================
Cyrus IMAP 3.1.6 Tag Notes
==========================

Unavailable for download as this is a development branch only.

Access is via git.

.. warning::

    This should be considered for
    **testing purposes** and **bleeding-edge features** only. We will try to tag these
    snapshots at coherent development points, but there will generally be **large
    breaking changes** occurring between releases in this series.

.. _relnotes-3.1.6-changes:

Major changes since the 3.0.x series
====================================

* Sieve bug fixes and features.
* Caldav and Carddav improvements.
* JMAP improvements.
* Xapian bug fixes.
* Improvements to Annotations handling.
* DRAC support has been deprecated.
* Support for Prometheus stats.
* Support for the Sphinx backend to squatter searches has been removed.
* new cyrus.index format v16 included in 3.1.5 - adds unseen count and
  createdmodseq to index header, savedate and createdmodseq to index records
* Support for WebSockets
* Support for HTTP/2.0
* Support for Zeroskip database format
* Intermediate mailboxes are now recorded in mailboxes database
* Conversations database format update - adds flags and internaldate fields,
  and is now versioned for future-compatibility.  You will need to rebuild
  your conversations databases with :cyrusman:`ctl_conversationsdb(8)` and
  the `-b` switch to benefit from this.


Updates to default configuration
================================

* The `specialusealways` option is now enabled by default. It must
  explicitly be disabled for interoperability with legacy clients that
  can't handle RFC 6154 attributes in extended LIST commands.
* The values accepted by `expunge_mode` have changed, please see the
  documentation for more information about the changes.
* The legacy GETANNOTATIONS/SETANNOTATIONS IMAP commands will no longer
  work unless `annotation_enable_legacy_commands` is enabled

Security fixes
==============
* Contains fix for CVE-2017-14230.
  [ http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-14230 ]

Significant bugfixes
====================

*


.. _Xapian: https://xapian.org
.. _ClamAV: https://www.clamav.net
.. _JMAP: http://jmap.io
