==============================
Cyrus IMAP 2.3.9 Release Notes
==============================

Changes to the Cyrus IMAP Server since 2.3.8

*   Added support for BDB 4.5 and 4.6.
*   Fixed bug in frontend handling of CREATE for both proxying and referring. -- courtesy of Gary Mills
*   Fixed local deletion during XFER from a unified server. -- courtesy of Gary Mills
*   Fixed XFER bug which prevented sieve scripts from being migrated. -- courtesy of Gary Mills
*   Allow utilities to be run as root (acquiring 'cyrus' uid on-the-fly).
*   Changed the default value of the allowplaintext option to disabled (0).
*   Finally fixed 64-bit alignment problem with HIGHESTMODSEQ.
*   Fixed initialization of UUID subsystem for replication. -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm
*   Added -a option to cyr_expire to ignore to skip annotation check. -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm
*   Set the mtime of synchronized message files to INTERNALDATE (makes reconstruction a little friendlier). -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm
*   Fixed a bug in sync_client which caused it to bail when a message was deleted out from under it.
*   Allow sync_server to accept unauthenticated connections from sync_client on a UNIX socket.
*   Drastically reduced the amount of time it takes for a mupdate slave to synchronize with a master.
*   Added URI contained in the Content-Location header to the BODYSTRUCTURE response (per RFC 3501). -- inspired by Fastmail.fm
*   Fixed flushseenstate bug which was causing unsolicited EXPUNGE responses during FETCH/STORE. -- courtesy of David Carter
*   Added option to ctl_mboxlist to verify the consistency of the mailbox list database and the spool partition(s). See ctl_mboxlist.8 for details.
*   RENAME now copies cyrus.expunge index file as well as expunged message files.
*   Fixed replication of 64-bit quotas. -- courtesy of David Carter
*   Fixed miscellaneous bugs, memory leaks, and build issues.

:ref:`imap-release-notes-2.3`
