===============================
Cyrus IMAP 2.3.10 Release Notes
===============================

Changes to the Cyrus IMAP Server since 2.3.9

*   Added support for "delayed" delete, in which mailboxes are renamed to a special admin-only "deleted" hierarchy at the time of the DELETE (hiding them from the client), rather than immediately removing them from the filesystem. This allows messages/mailboxes to be recovered by the admin in case of user error. The mailboxes and messages can be removed at a later time by cyr_expire. The new delete_mode and deletedprefix options in imapd.conf controls whether deletes are "immediate" or "delayed" and the mailbox hierarchy for "delayed" deletes. -- courtesy of David Carter and FastMail.fm.
*   Fixed the special case of RENAMEing an Inbox, so that it doesn't keep the same mailbox uniqueid, thus allowing it to replicate properly (seen state is still preserved).
*   Disabled Nagle's algorithm in sync_client and sync_server to increase the throughput of the replication protocol. -- courtesy of Wes Craig.
*   Added support for a shared \Seen flag on messages (must be enabled on a per-mailbox basis with the /vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/sharedseen mailbox annotation.
*   Added -g and -G options to reconstruct -- courtesy of David Carter.
*   Added SETUIDVALIDITY command to the replication protocol -- courtesy of David Carter.
*   Finally fixed (again?) alignment issues on 64-bit SPARC.
*   Changed message GUIDs used by replication to be the SHA1 hash of the messages -- based on work of David Carter and Fastmail.fm.
*   Improve the performance of commands that operate on sequence-sets. The sequence-set is now parsed only once, and the commands operate on a sorted list of seq-ranges.
*   Added new cyr_synclog utility for adding events to the replication log -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm.
*   Added support for PCRE library -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm.
*   Added support for disabling duplicate delivery suppression on a per-folder basis with the /vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/duplicatedeliver mailbox annotation -- courtesy of Fastmail.fm.
*   Fixed miscellaneous bugs and build issues.

:ref:`imap-release-notes-2.3`
