:tocdepth: 3

==========================
Cyrus IMAP 3.1.9 Tag Notes
==========================

Unavailable for download as this is a development branch only.

Access is via git.

.. warning::

    This should be considered for
    **testing purposes** and **bleeding-edge features** only. We will try to tag these
    snapshots at coherent development points, but there will generally be **large
    breaking changes** occurring between releases in this series.

.. _relnotes-3.1.9-changes:

Major changes since the 3.0.x series
====================================

* Sieve bug fixes and features.
* Caldav and Carddav improvements.
* Support for JMAP core protocol (:rfc:`8620`).
* Support for JMAP Mail (:rfc:`8621`).
* Experimental support for JMAP Contacts (requires
  `jmap_nonstandard_extensions: yes` in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`).
* Experimental support for JMAP Calendars (requires
  `jmap_nonstandard_extensions: yes` in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`).
* Xapian bug fixes.
* Improvements to Annotations handling.
* DRAC support has been deprecated.
* Support for Prometheus stats.
* Removed support for the Sphinx backend to squatter searches.
* New cyrus.index format v16 included since 3.1.5 - adds unseen count and
  createdmodseq to index header, savedate and createdmodseq to index records
* Support for WebSockets
* Support for HTTP/2.0
* Support for Zeroskip database format
* Intermediate mailboxes are now recorded in mailboxes database
* Conversations database format update - adds flags and internaldate fields,
  and is now versioned for future-compatibility.  You will need to rebuild
  your conversations databases with :cyrusman:`ctl_conversationsdb(8)` and
  the `-b` switch to benefit from this.
* IMAP FETCH accepts two new data items, MAILBOXIDS and MAILBOXES, which
  respectively return the unique ids or names of the containing mailboxes of
  each message in the sequence (for best performance, rebuild your
  conversations databases as above)
* :cyrusman:`mbpath(8)` is now much more useful
* Twoskip database format now supports shared locks
* All Cyrus binaries now use real sysexits exit codes instead of mapping
  nearly everything to EX_TEMPFAIL
* CyrusDB errors now syslog the actual error instead of just "cyrusdb error"
* New `allowdeleted` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option (default off), which
  allows admin users to see deleted mailboxes and expunged messages over IMAP
* :cyrusman:`cyr_virusscan(8)` now supports custom templates for notifications
  sent about infected messages that have been deleted
* :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` options that represent a time duration now accept
  'd', 'h', 'm', 's' suffixes rather than arbitrary units.
* The `tls_server_cert` and `tls_server_key` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` options
  now allow two certificate/key pairs (e.g. RSA and EC) to be used.  Thanks
  Дилян Палаузов
* Mailbox create/delete/rename are now performed under a lock on the user's
  namespace, to prevent races (especially during big renames).


Updates to default configuration
================================

* The `specialusealways` option is now enabled by default. It must
  explicitly be disabled for interoperability with legacy clients that
  can't handle RFC 6154 attributes in extended LIST commands.
* The values accepted by `expunge_mode` have changed, please see the
  documentation for more information about the changes.
* The legacy GETANNOTATIONS/SETANNOTATIONS IMAP commands will no longer
  work unless `annotation_enable_legacy_commands` is enabled.
* The `outbox_sendlater` option and its functionality have been removed.


Security fixes
==============

* Contains fix for `CVE-2017-14230 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-14230>`_
* Contains fix for `CVE-2019-18928 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-18928>`_
* Contains fix for `CVE-2019-19783 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19783>`_


Significant bugfixes
====================

* Contains fix for :issue:`2839`


.. _Xapian: https://xapian.org
.. _ClamAV: https://www.clamav.net
.. _JMAP: http://jmap.io
