.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH ARBITRON 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: arbitron.8,v 1.15 2006/11/30 17:11:23 murch Exp $

.SH NAME
arbitron \- arbitron mailboxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arbitron
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
] [
.B \-o
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-p
.I months
]
.br
         [
.B \-d
.I days
|
.B \-D
\fImmddyyyy\fR[\fB:\fImmddyyyy\fR]
]
\fImailbox\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Arbitron
collects and reports readership statistics for mailboxes on the
server.  It also optionally prunes the mailboxes of \\Seen state for
dormant users.
.PP
.I Arbitron
produces one line of output per mailbox, reporting the mailbox name
followed by a space, followed by the number of
readers (and if -u is specified, followed by a colon and a
comma-separated list of the readers userids), and if -o is not
specified, another space and the number of subscribers (and if -u is
specified, followed by a colon and a comma-separated list of the
subscribers userids).
\fBIMPORTANT: This format is subject to change in future versions.\fR
.PP
Each "reader" is a distinct authentication identity which has
"s" rights to the mailbox and which has SELECTed the mailbox within
either the past
.I days
days or the specified date range.
Users are not counted as reading their own personal mailboxes.
Personal mailboxes are not reported unless there is at least one
reader other than the mailboxes owner.
.PP
.I Arbitron
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-o
"old way" -- do not report subscribers.
.TP
.BI \-u
Report userids in addition to the count(s).
.TP
.BI \-l
Enable long reporting (comma delimited table consisting of mbox, userid,
r/s, start time, end time).
.TP
.BI "\-d " days
Count as a reader an authentication identity which has SELECTed the
mailbox within
.I days
days.  Default is 30.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fImmddyyyy\fR[\fB:\fImmddyyyy\fR]
Count as a reader an authentication identity which has SELECTed the
mailbox within the given date range.  The start date and optional end
date are specified as 2-digit month of the year, 2-digit day of the
month, and 4-digit year.  If the end date is not specified, then the
current system time is used as the end time.
.TP
.BI "\-p " months
Prune \\Seen state for users who have not SELECTed the mailbox within
.I months
months.  Default is infinity.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
