.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CTL_CONVERSATIONSDB 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2011 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.SH NAME
ctl_conversationsdb \- perform operations on the conversations databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBctl_conversationsdb\fP [ \fB-C\fP \fIconfig-file\fP ] \fB-d\fR
\fIuserid\fR > \fItext\fP
.br
\fBctl_conversationsdb\fP [ \fB-C\fP \fIconfig-file\fP ] \fB-u\fR
\fIuserid\fR < \fItext\fP
.br
\fBctl_conversationsdb\fP [ \fB-C\fP \fIconfig-file\fP ] [ \fB-v\fR ]
[ \fB-z\fR | \fB-b\fR | \fB-R\fR ] \fIuserid\fR
.br
\fBctl_conversationsdb\fP [ \fB-C\fP \fIconfig-file\fP ] [ \fB-v\fR ]
[ \fB-z\fR | \fB-b\fR | \fB-R\fR ] \fB-r\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ctl_conversationsdb
is used to perform various administrative operations on a
conversations database and associated information in \fIcyrus.index\fR
files.
.PP
.B Ctl_conversationsdb
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
The
.I configdirectory
option is used to determine the default location of the conversations database.
.PP
In the first synopsis, the \fB-d\fP option dumps the contents of a
conversations database to standard output in an ASCII format.  In the
second synopsis, the resulting \fIfile\fP is fed back in, using the
\fB-u\fP option to "undump" from standard input.  This pair of commands
is useful for disaster recovery, or for changing the backend used to
store the conversations database.
.PP
The third synopsis is used to reconstruct conversations information
in various ways for a specific user, and the fourth to reconstruct
conversations information for all users.  See
.SM OPTIONS
below for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C\  "config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump the conversations database which corresponds to the user \fIuserid\fR
to standard output in an ASCII format.  The resulting file can be used
to recreate a database using the \fB-u\fR option.
.TP
.B \-u
"Undumps" the conversations database corresponding to the user \fIuserid\fR,
i.e. replaces all the entries with data from ASCII records parsed from
standard input.  The output from the \fB-d\fR option can be used as
input.
.TP
.B \-v
Be more verbose when running.
.TP
.B \-r
Be recursive; apply the main operation to every user.  Warning: do not
combine with \fB-u\fP, it will not do what you expect.
.TP
.B \-z
Remove all conversation information from the conversations database
for user \fIuserid\fP, and from all the user's mailboxes.  The
information can all be recalculated (eventually) from message headers,
using the \fB-b\fP option.
.TP
.B \-b
Rebuild all conversation information in the conversations database
for user \fIuserid\fP, and in all the user's mailboxes, from the header
information in messages.  Does not affect messages which already have
conversation information.
.IP
This is a bulk mode version of what happens
to each message when it arrives, and can be used to add missing
conversation information for past messages, e.g. after using \fB-z\fP or
after upgrading Cyrus from older versions.  Note: this operation uses
information from \fIcyrus.cache\fP files so it does not need to read
every single message file.
.TP
.B \-R
Recalculate counts of messages stored in existing conversations in the
conversations database for user \fIuserid\fP.  This is a limited subset
of \fB-b\fP; in particular it does not create conversations or assign
messages to conversations.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
