.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CYR_INFO 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2009 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH NAME
cyr_info \- general cyrus inspection tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cyr_info
[
.B \-C
.I alt imapd.conf
]
[
.B \-M
.I alt cyrus.conf
]
command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cyr_info
is a tool for getting information from Cyrus.  The intent is to
extend this tool with useful commands to make managing and
configuring Cyrus easier.
.I Cyr_info
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " file"
Read configuration options from \fIfile\fR (imapd.conf format).
.TP
.BI \-M " file"
Read service specifications from \fIfile\fR (cyrus.conf format).
.TP
.BI \-n " name"
Read the configuration as if for the service named \fIname\fR.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI allconf
print ALL configuration options - including default options
.TP
.BI conf
print only the configuration options which are not the same as
default (regardless of whether you have specified them or not)
.TP
.BI lint
print only configuration options which are NOT recognised.  This
command should not print anything.  It uses cyrus.conf to find
the names of configured services to avoid displaying any known
configuration options for the named service.
.TP
.BI proc
print all currently connected processes in the proc directory
.SH FILES
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.B /etc/cyrus.conf
