.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CYR_DENY 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2012 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH NAME
cyr_deny \- deny users access to Cyrus services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cyr_deny
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
] [
.B \-s
.I services
] [
.B \-m
.I message
]
.I user
.br
.B cyr_deny
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B -a
.I user
.br
.B cyr_deny
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B -l
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cyr_deny
is used to deny individual users access to Cyrus services.  The first
synopsis denies user \fIuser\fP access to Cyrus services, the second
synopsis allows access again.  \fBcyr_deny\fP works by adding an entry to
the Cyrus deny database; the third synopsis lists the entries in
the database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.B \-a
Allow access to all services for user \fIuser\fP (remove any entry
from the deny database).
.TP
.BI \-s " services"
Deny access only to the given \fIservices\fP, which is a comma-separated
list of wildcard patterns.  The default is "*" which denies access to
all services.
.TP
.B \-l
List the entries in the deny database.
.TP
.BI \-m " message"
Provide a message which is sent to the user to explain why access is
being denied.  A default message is used if none is specified.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR
