.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH DELIVER 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: deliver.8,v 1.17 2002/05/25 19:57:47 leg Exp $
.SH NAME
deliver \- deliver mail to an IMAP mailbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deliver
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-r
.I address
]
.br
        [
.B \-f
.I address
]
[
.B \-m
.I mailbox
]
[
.B \-a
.I auth-id
]
.br
        [
.B \-q
]
[
.I userid
]...
.br
.B deliver
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-l
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deliver
reads a message from the standard input and delivers it to one or more
IMAP mailboxes.
.PP
.I Deliver
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.B \-d
Ignored for compatability with 
.B /bin/mail.
.TP
.BI \-r " address"
Insert a 
.B Return-Path: 
header containing
.i address
.TP
.BI \-f " address"
Insert a 
.B Return-Path: 
header containing
.i address
.TP
.BI \-m " mailbox"
Deliver to 
.IR mailbox .
If any
.IR userid s
are specified, attempts to deliver to
.RI user. userid . mailbox
for each 
.IR userid .
If the ACL on any such mailbox does not grant the sender the "p" right
or if 
.B \-m
is not specified,
then delivers to the INBOX for the
.IR userid ,
regardless of the ACL on the INBOX.
.IP
If no
.IR userid s
are specified, attempts to deliver to
.IR mailbox .
If the ACL on
.I mailbox
does not grant the sender the "p" right, the delivery fails.
.TP
.BI \-a " auth-id"
Specify the authorization id of the sender.  Defaults to "anonymous".
.TP
.B \-q
Deliver message even when receiving mailbox is over quota.
.TP
.B \-l
Accept messages using the LMTP protocol.
.SH NOTES
Depending on the setting of \fBreject8bit\fR in \fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, deliver
either rejects messages with 8-bit-set characters in the headers or 
changes these characters to `X'.
This is because such characters can't be interpreted since the
character set is not known, although some communities not well-served by
US-ASCII assume that those characters can be used to represent characters not
present in US-ASCII.
.PP
A method for encoding 8-bit-set characters is provided by RFC 2047.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBlmtpd(8)\fR
