.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IMAPD.CONF 5
.\" Copyright 1998 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\" No warranties, either expressed or implied, are made regarding the
.\" operation, use, or results of the software.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted for non-commercial purposes only
.\" provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies and in
.\" supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" Permission is also granted to Internet Service Providers and others
.\" entities to use the software for internal purposes.
.\"
.\" The distribution, modification or sale of a product which uses or is
.\" based on the software, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes or
.\" benefits requires specific, additional permission from:
.\"
.\"  Office of Technology Transfer
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"  Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"  (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"  tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.SH NAME
imapd.conf \- IMAP configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR 
is the configuration file for the Cyrus IMAP server.  It defines
local parameters for IMAP. 
.PP
Each line of the \fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR file has the form
.IP
\fIoption\fR: \fIvalue\fR
.PP
where \fIoption\fR is the name of the configuration option being set
and \fIvalue\fR is the value that the configuration option is being
set to.
.PP
Blank lines and lines beginning with ``#'' are ignored.
.PP
For boolean options, the values ``yes'', ``on'', ``t'', and ``1'' turn the
option on, the values ``no'', ``off'', ``f'', and ``0'' turn the option off.
.SH FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
.PP
The sections below detail options that can be placed in the
\fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR file, and show each option's default value.
Some options have no default value, these are listed with
``<no default>''.  Some options default to the empty string, these
are listed with ``<none>''.
.IP "\fBconfigdirectory:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the IMAP configuration directory.  This field is required.
.IP "\fBdefaultpartition:\fR default" 5
The partition name used by default for new mailboxes.
.IP "\fBpartition-\fIname\fB:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the partition \fIname\fR.  At least one field, for the
partition named in the \fBdefaultpartition\fR option, is required.
For example, if the value of the \fBdefaultpartion\fR option is
\fBdefault\fR, then the \fBpartition-default\fR field is required.
.IP "\fBumask:\fR 077" 5
The umask value used by various Cyrus IMAP programs.
.IP "\fBallowanonymouslogin:\fR no" 5
Permit logins by the user "anonymous" using any password.
.IP "\fBquotawarn:\fR 90" 5
The percent of quota utilization over which the server generates
warnings.
.IP "\fBtimeout:\fR 30" 5
The length of the IMAP server's inactivity autologout timer,
in minutes.  The minimum value is 30, the default.
.IP "\fBpoptimeout:\fR 10" 5
Set the length of the POP server's inactivity autologout timer,
in minutes.  The minimum value is 10, the default.
.IP "\fBpopminpoll:\fR 0" 5
Set the minimum amount of time the server forces users to wait between
successive POP logins,
in minutes.  The default is 0.
.IP "\fBadmins:\fR <none>" 5
The list of userids with administrative rights.  Separate each userid
with a space. We recommend that administrator userids be separate from
standard userids.  Sites using Kerberos authentication may use
separate "admin" instances.
.IP "\fBimspservers:\fR <none>" 5
The list of the host names of the mail domain's IMSP servers.
Separate each host name with a space.  The Kerberos identities of
these servers may login as any user in order to perform commands by
proxy.
.IP "\fBdefaultacl:\fR anyone lrs" 5
The Access Control List (ACL) placed on a newly-created (non-user) 
mailbox that does not have a parent mailbox.
.IP "\fBnewsspool\fB:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the news spool directory.  Only used if the
\fBpartition-news\fR configuration option is set.
.IP "\fBnewsprefix:\fR <none>" 5
Prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make the corresponding
IMAP mailbox names.
.IP "\fBautocreatequota:\fR 0" 5
If nonzero, normal users may create their own IMAP accounts by
creating the mailbox INBOX.  The user's quota is set to the value if
it is positive, otherwise the user has unlimited quota.
.IP "\fBlogtimestamps:\fR no" 5
Include notations in the protocol telemetry logs indicating the number of
seconds since the last command or response.
.IP "\fBplaintextloginpause:\fR 0" 5
Number of seconds to pause after a successful plaintext login.
For systems that support strong authentication, this permits users to
perceive a cost of using plaintext passwords.
.IP "\fBsrvtab:\fR /etc/srvtab" 5
The pathname of \fIsrvtab\fR file containing the server's private 
key.  This option is only used when the server is compiled with
Kerberos authentication.
.IP "\fBloginrealms:\fR <none>" 5
The list of remote realms whose users may log in using 
cross-realm authentications.  Seperate each realm name
by a space.  This option is only used when the server is
compiled with Kerberos authentication.
.IP "\fBloginuseacl:\fR no" 5
If enabled, any authentication identity which has \fBa\fR rights on a
user's INBOX may log in as that user.  This option is only used when
the server is compiled with Kerberos authentication.
.IP "\fBnetscapeurl:\fR http://andrew2.andrew.cmu.edu/cyrus/imapd/netscape-admin.html" 5
If enabled at compile time, this specifies a URL to reply when Netscape
asks the server where the mail administration HTTP server is.  The default
is a site at CMU with a hopefully informative message; administrators
should set this to a local resource with some information of greater use.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd(8)\fR



