.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IMAPD 8
.\" Copyright 1998 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\" No warranties, either expressed or implied, are made regarding the
.\" operation, use, or results of the software.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted for non-commercial purposes only
.\" provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies and in
.\" supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" Permission is also granted to Internet Service Providers and others
.\" entities to use the software for internal purposes.
.\"
.\" The distribution, modification or sale of a product which uses or is
.\" based on the software, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes or
.\" benefits requires specific, additional permission from:
.\"
.\"  Office of Technology Transfer
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"  Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"  (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"  tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.SH NAME
imapd \- IMAP server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imapd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Imapd
is an IMAP4rev1 server.
It accepts commands on its standard input and responds on its standard output.
It is normally invoked by
.IR inetd (8)
with those descriptors attached to a remote client connection.
.PP
.I Imapd
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file.
.PP
If the file
msg/shutdown
is created under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will shut down the connection, sending the first line contained in the
file to the client as the reason.  New connections are denied.
.PP
If the file
msg/motd
is created under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will send the first line contained in the file to clients upon connect as
an ALERT message which IMAP-compliant clients are required to display.
This option serves to annoy users mostly.  Unfortunately clients tend to
connect far more frequently than is apparent, causing each connection to
generate a seperate server ALERT for each connection.  Many clients do not
display these properly, if they do anything with them at all.
.PP
If the directory
.RI log/ user
exists under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will create protocol telemetry logs for sessions authenticating as
.IR user .
The telemetry logs will be stored in the 
.RI log/ user
directory with a filename of the
.I imapd
process-id.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
