.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IMTEST 1 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
 *
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: imtest.1,v 1.17 2009/04/23 17:10:07 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
imtest \- interactive IMAP test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imtest
[
.B \-t
.I keyfile
]
[
.B \-p
.I port
]
[
.B \-m
.I mechanism
]
.br
       [
.B \-a
.I userid
]
[
.B \-u
.I userid
]
[
.B \-k
.I num
]
[
.B \-l
.I num
]
.br
       [
.B \-r
.I realm
]
[
.B \-f
.I file
]
[
.B \-n
.I num
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-q
]
.br
       [
.B \-c
]
[
.B \-i
]
[
.B \-z
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-I
.I file
]
[
.B \-x
.I file
]
.br
       [
.B \-X
.I file
]
[
.B \-o
\fIoption\fB=\fIvalue\fR
]
\fIhostname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I imtest
is a utility that allows you to authenticate to a IMAP or IMSP server
and interactively issue commands to it. Once authenticated you may
issue any IMAP or IMSP command by simply typing it in. It is capable
of multiple SASL authentication mechanisms and handles encryption
layers transparently. This utility is often used for testing the
operation of a imsp or imap server. Also those developing IMAP clients
find it useful.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t " keyfile"
Enable TLS.  \fIkeyfile\fR contains the TLS public and private keys.
Specify \fB""\fR to negotiate a TLS encryption layer but not use TLS
authentication.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Port to connect to. If left off this defaults to \fBimap\fR as defined in
/etc/services. 
.TP
.BI -m " mechanism"
Force imtest to use \fImechanism\fR for authentication. If not specified
the strongest authentication mechanism supported by the server is
chosen.  Specify \fBlogin\fR to use the LOGIN command instead of AUTHENTICATE.
.TP
.BI -a " userid"
Userid to use for authentication; defaults to the current user.
This is the userid whose password or credentials will be presented to
the server for verification.
.TP
.BI -u " userid"
Userid to use for authorization; defaults to the current user.
This is the userid whose identity will be assumed after authentication.
\fBNOTE:\fR This is only used with SASL mechanisms that allow proxying
(e.g. PLAIN, DIGEST-MD5).
.TP
.BI -k " num"
Minimum protection layer required.
.TP
.BI -l " num"
Maximum protection layer to use (\fB0\fR=none; \fB1=\fRintegrity;
etc).  For example if you are using the KERBEROS_V4 authentication
mechanism specifying \fB0\fR will force imtest to not use any layer
and specifying \fB1\fR will force it to use the integrity layer.  By
default the maximum supported protection layer will be used.
.TP
.BI -r " realm"
Specify the \fIrealm\fR to use. Certain authentication mechanisms
(e.g. DIGEST-MD5) may require one to specify the realm.
.TP
.BI -f " file"
Pipe \fIfile\fR into connection after authentication.
.TP
.BI -n " num"
Number of authentication attempts; default = 1.  The client will
attempt to do SSL/TLS session reuse and/or fast reauth
(e.g. DIGEST-MD5), if possible.
.TP
.B -s
Enable IMAP over SSL (imaps).
.TP
.B -q
Enable IMAP COMPRESSion (before the last authentication attempt).
.TP
.B -c
Enable challenge prompt callbacks.  This will cause the OTP mechanism
to ask for the the one-time password instead of the secret pass-phrase
(library generates the correct response).
.TP
.B -i
Don't send an initial client response for SASL mechanisms, even if the
protocol supports it.
.TP
.BI -I " file"
Echo the PID of the running process into
.I file
(This can be useful with -X).
.TP
.BI -x " file"
Open the named socket for the interactive portion
.TP
.BI -X " file"
Like -x, only close all file descriptors & daemonize the process.
.TP
\fB-o \fIoption\fB=\fIvalue\fR
Set the SASL \fIoption\fR to \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose. Print out more information than usual.
.TP
.B -z
Timing test.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd(8)\fR
