.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH RMNEWS 8
.\" Copyright 1998 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\" No warranties, either expressed or implied, are made regarding the
.\" operation, use, or results of the software.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted for non-commercial purposes only
.\" provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies and in
.\" supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" Permission is also granted to Internet Service Providers and others
.\" entities to use the software for internal purposes.
.\"
.\" The distribution, modification or sale of a product which uses or is
.\" based on the software, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes or
.\" benefits requires specific, additional permission from:
.\"
.\"  Office of Technology Transfer
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"  Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"  (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"  tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.SH NAME
rmnews \- expunge and remove news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmnews
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmnews
reads article data from the standard input.
It then expunges and removes the listed articles.
.I Rmnews
is designed to be used by InterNetNews to remove canceled, superseded,
and expired news articles.
.PP
The input is processed as an INN 
.I expirerm
file listing or an INN cancel
stream written as a ``WC'' entry in the
.IR newsfeeds (5)
file.  This data consists of lines of text, each containing a list of
relative article pathnames, with a single space between entries.  If
a listed file is contained in an IMAP news mailbox, it is expunged out
of that mailbox.  In any case, each listed file is unlinked.
.PP
.I Rmnews
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file.  The optional
.I newsprefix
option specifies a prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make
the corresponding IMAP mailbox names.
The required
.I partition-news
option specifies the pathname prefix to the IMAP news mailboxes.  The
value of
.I partition-news
concatenated with the dots-to-slashes-converted value of
.I newsprefix
must be the pathname of the news spool directory.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
