.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH SYNC_SERVER 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: sync_server.8,v 1.2 2006/11/30 17:11:23 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
sync_server \- server side of the synchronization (replication) engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sync_server
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-p
.I ssf
]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I Sync_server
is the server side of the the replication system.  It runs on the
target (replica) system and listens for connections from
.I sync_client
which provides instructions for synchronizing the replica system with
the master system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-p " ssf"
Tell
.I sync_server
that an external layer exists.  An SSF (security strength factor) of 1
means an integrity protection layer exists.  Any higher SSF implies
some form of privacy protection.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBsync_client(8)\fR
.SH AUTHORS
David Carter (dpc22@cam.ac.uk), Ken Murchison (ken@oceana.com)
