.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH SYNC_CLIENT 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
 *
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: sync_client.8,v 1.6 2010/01/06 17:01:52 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
sync_client \- client side of the synchronization (replication) engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sync_client
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-L
]
[
.B \-z
]
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-S
.I servername
]
.br
            [
.B \-f
.I input-file
]
[
.B \-F
.I shutdown_file
]
[
.B \-w
.I wait_interval
]
.br
            [
.B \-t
.I timeout
]
[
.B \-d
.I delay
]
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-m
]
.br
            [
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-p
.I partition
]
.IR objects ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sync_client
is the client side of the replication system.  It runs on the client
(master) system and connects to the target (replica) system and
generates an appropriate sequence of transactions to synchronize the
replica system with the master system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-l
Verbose logging mode.
.TP
.BI \-L
Perform only local mailbox operations (do not do mupdate operations).
.TP
.BI \-o
Only attempt to connect to the backend server once rather than waiting
up to 1000 seconds before giving up.
.TP
.BI \-z
Enable compress.
If you set 'sync_compress' in the imapd.conf or pass -z to sync_client, the
replication protocol will attempt to enable deflate compression on the
connection.
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-S " servername"
Tells
.B sync_client
which server to communicate with.  Overrides the \fIsync_host\fR
configuration option.
.TP
.BI \-f " input-file"
In mailbox or user replication mode: provides list of users or mailboxes
to replicate.  In rolling replication mode, specifies an alternate log
file (sync_client will exit after processing the log file).
.TP
.BI \-F " shutdown-file"
Rolling replication checks for this file at the end of each replication
cycle and shuts down if it is present. Used to request nice clean shutdown
at first convenient point. The file in question is removed on shutdown.
Overrides
.I sync_shutdown_file
option in
.I imapd.conf
.TP
.BI \-w " interval"
Wait this long before starting. Typically used so that we can attach a
debugger to one end of the replication system or the other.
.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
Timeout for single replication run in rolling replication.
.B sync_client
will negotiate a restart after this many seconds. Default: 600 seconds
.TP
.BI \-d " delay"
Minimum delay between replication runs in rolling replication mode.
Larger values provide better efficiency as transactions can be merged.
Smaller values mean that the replica system is more up to date and that
you don't end up with large blocks of replication transactions as a single
group. Default: 3 seconds.
.TP
.BI \-r
Rolling (repeat) replication mode. Pick up a list of actions recorded by
the
.B lmtpd(8), imapd(8), popd(8) and nntpd(8)
daemons from the file specified in
.I sync_log_file.
Repeat until
.I sync_shutdwon_file
appears.
.TP
.BI \-n
Use the named channel for rolling replication mode.  If multiple channels
are specified in
.I sync_log_channels
then use one of them.  This option is
probably best combined with -S to connect to a different server with each
channel.
.TP
.BI \-u
User mode.
Remaining arguments are list of users who should be replicated.
.TP
.BI \-m
Mailbox mode.
Remaining arguments are list of mailboxes which should be replicated.
.TP
.BI \-s
Sieve mode.
Remaining arguments are list of users whose Sieve files should be replicated.
Principally used for debugging purposes: not exposed to
.B sync_client(8).
.TP
.BI \-p " partition"
In mailbox or user replication mode: provides the name of the
partition on the replica to which the mailboxes/users should be replicated.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBsync_server(8)\fR
.SH AUTHORS
David Carter (dpc22@cam.ac.uk), Ken Murchison (ken@oceana.com)
