:tocdepth: 3

===========================
Cyrus IMAP 3.13.4 Tag Notes
===========================

Unavailable for download as this is a development branch only.

Access is via git.

.. warning::

    This should be considered for
    **testing purposes** and **bleeding-edge features** only. We will try to
    tag these snapshots at coherent development points, but there will
    generally be **large breaking changes** occurring between releases in this
    series.

.. _relnotes-3.13.4-changes:

Major changes since the 3.12 series
===================================

* The annotator is now called only on items added to email-type mailboxes.
* :cyrusman:`ctl_conversationsdb(8)` now has ``-U`` for version upgrades.
* :cyrusman:`lmtpd(8)` now provides a capability called ``TRACE`` and a new
  ``TRACE`` command for setting an interal trace-id, which will be logged.
* The :imapdconf:`admins_get_internal_seen` option has been added.  If set, the
  admin users will always get and set the same ``\Seen`` flags as the mailbox
  owner.
* ``master(8)`` will refuse to start if multiple partitions appear to be
  identical or overlap. (:issue:`5573`:)
* Cyrus syslogs are in the process of being converted to ``logfmt``, a
  structured logging format.  So far, this affects primarily the login logs and
  auditlog.
* The :cyrusman:`backupcyrusd(8)` protocol daemon has been added to facilitate
  rolling backups.
* The :imapdconf:`expire_by_savedate` and :imapdconf:`expire_keep_flagged`
  options have been added to control the behavior of :cyrusman:`cyr_expire(8)`.
* Time zone data is no longer included in iTIP messages.
* The IMAP PREVIEW extension will now only be advertised if the
  :imapdconf:`jmap_preview_annot` option is set and begins with ``/shared/``.
* Support for the IMAP ``UIDBATCHES`` extension has been added.
* :cyrusman:`cyrus.conf(5)` can now schedule ``EVENTS`` with cron-like syntax.
* The new :imapdconf:`sieve_mdn_original_recipient_header` option allows an
  install to get the original recipient from a header other than
  Original-Recipient.
* The new :imapdconf:`sieve_mdn_private` option helps prevent leaking
  usernames.
* A new database backend called ``twom`` has been added.
* Adds support for the Sieve 'vnd.cyrus.redirect-multiple' extension
  which allows the 'redirect' action to accept a stringlist of email
  addresses, in addition to the standard single string.
  Cyrus will use a single SMTP transaction, providing each address
  as a RCPT TO and stop script processing when any response is an error.
* The 'sieve_extensions' option now accepts the value
  'vnd.cyrus.redirect-multiple' to enable the extension in timsieved.
* Cyrus now requires libical >= 4.0.0, or a current development snapshot.
* Cyrus now requires libxapian >= 2.0.0, or a recent 1.5.x bleeding edge
  snapshot.
* JMAP methods now use perfect hashes (gperf) for increased performance.
* The code in ``lib/imapoptions`` has been refactored for easier maintenance and
  extensibility.
* Building Cyrus now requires ``perl`` >= 5.28.0 and the modules ``Moo`` and
  ``App::Cmd``. These are usually available as OS packages - e.g. on
  Debian-based systems as ``libmoo-perl`` and ``libapp-cmd-perl``
* The :cyrusman:`mkimap(8)` and :cyrusman:`rehash(8)` tools are now installed
  to ``--sbindir`` by ``make install``.
* Content for the documentation site (cyrusimap.org) can now be
  written in Markdown.  Building the documentation, therefore, will
  now require ``myst_parser``, which is what makes this possible.

Updates to default configuration
================================

* OpenSSL version 3.0 or greater is now required for all builds.

Removed features
================

* The undocumented ``XSTATS`` metrics system has been removed.
* The undocumented ``XKILLMY`` command and its associated ``SIGUSR2`` handler
  have been removed.
* lipcap support has been removed.
* The ``tls_server_dhparam`` option has been deprecated.
* The experimental zeroskip database backend has been removed.
* Support for the obscure "objectstore" feature has been removed.
* The long deprecated ``installsieve`` program has been removed. Please use
  :cyrusman:`sieveshell(1)` instead.
* The following options are now deprecated:

 * caringo_hostname
 * caringo_port
 * object_storage_dummy_spool
 * object_storage_enabled
 * openio_account
 * openio_autocreate
 * openio_namespace
 * openio_proxy_timeout
 * openio_rawx_timeout
 * openio_verbosity

Security fixes
==============

* None yet!

Significant bugfixes
====================

* :cyrusman:`lmtpd(8)` will no longer reset the session id after ``LHLO``.
* :imapdconf:`implicit_owner_rights` are now respected on HTTP-based protocols,
  like JMAP.
