:tocdepth: 3

====================================
Cyrus IMAP 3.6.0-beta1 Release Notes
====================================

Download from GitHub:

    *   https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-3.6.0-beta1/cyrus-imapd-3.6.0-beta1.tar.gz
    *   https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-3.6.0-beta1/cyrus-imapd-3.6.0-beta1.tar.gz.sig

.. _relnotes-3.6.0-beta1-changes:

Major changes since the 3.4 series
==================================

* All members of a newly created mailbox hierarchy will now be selectable
  mailboxes.  In other words, when creating mailbox user.foo.A.B.C, both
  user.foo.A and user.foo.A.B will also be created as real mailboxes.
* XFER will no longer move individual mailboxes that would leave unselectable
  mailboxes behind in the user heirarchy.
* Update IMAP PREVIEW extension from
  :draft:`draft-ietf-extra-imap-fetch-preview-07` to :rfc:`8970`
* JMAP Blob handling updated to :draft:`draft-ietf-jmap-blob-04`
* Always return 'blobId' and 'size' in Contact/setcreate, Contact/setupdate,
  and Contact/get responses.
* Added Bearer authentication for :rfc:`7519` JSON Web Tokens.  See
  `http_jwt_key` and `http_jwt_max_age` in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`.
* Added `icalendar_max_size` and `vcard_max_size` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`
  options to limit the size of iCalendar and vCard resources that can be
  stored.
* Added `caldav_accept_invalid_rrules` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option to
  configure whether invalid RRULES should be accepted or rejected.  They
  were previously always rejected.
* The `event_extra_params` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option now supports
  a `vnd.fastmail.jmapEmail` selector, which adds a JMAP Email object to
  event messages.  If you enable this selector, you might consider removing
  `vnd.cmu.envelope`, `vnd.cmu.emailid`, and `vnd.cmu.threadid`, as they
  would be redundant.
* Added `search_maxsize` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option to limit how much
  of long message body parts are indexed by Xapian, which can improve indexing
  and snippet-generation latency.  The default is 4MB.  An earlier
  implementation applied a hardcoded 4MB limit to entire messages; systems
  that had this implementation may notice an increase in index size due to
  more text now being indexed.
* The :cyrusman:`squatter(8)` `-s delta` option now requires the delta
  argument.
* Added an upper limit to :cyrusman:`sync_client(8)`'s exponential reconnect
  backoff, configurable with the `sync_reconnect_maxwait`
  :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option.
* :cyrusman:`sync_client(8)` now recognises when the remote
  :cyrusman:`sync_server(8)` has been shut down cleanly, and doesn't log a
  bunch of disconnection errors about it
* Added an inactivity timeout for WebSocket connections, configurable with
  the `websocket_timeout` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option.
* Mailboxes and user metadata directories are now organised on disk by UUID
  rather than by mailbox name.  See :ref:`relnotes_storage_changes` below.
* Sieve scripts are now stored in a special mailbox, rather than in
  `sievedir`.  Compiled bytecode is still stored in `sievedir`.  The name of
  the mailbox can be overridden with the `sieve_folder`
  :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option (default: '#sieve').
* Experimental `processimip` Sieve action, for updating calendar entries
  based on iMIP (:rfc:`6047`) messages.
* Support for JMAP Push (:rfc:`8620`) over EventSource, with polling interval
  controlled by the `jmap_pushpoll` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option
  (default: 60s).
* Experimental support for JMAP Push over WebSockets, if Cyrus has been
  compiled with WebSockets enabled.  Controlled by the same `jmap_pushpoll`
  option.
* When a MIME part Content-Type header incorrectly specifies multiple charsets,
  Cyrus now checks each charset for validity and uses the last valid one.
  Previously, it would just use the first one, which is often junk when
  multiple are present.
* JMAP Email/query and XCONV IMAP extension commands no longer ignore the SEEN
  state of messages in the "Trash" mailbox when evaluating conversation flags.
  Queries must explicitly exclude the "Trash" mailbox to ignore SEEN state of
  messages in "Trash".
* JMAP Contact.importance property is now a per-user property rather than
  shared.
* JMAP Contacts now uses Apple-style labels on vCard ADR/TEL/EMAIL properties
  (via property grouping)
* JMAP Contacts avatars can now reference any valid blob, not only blobs
  originally uploaded via JMAP.

.. _relnotes_storage_changes:

Storage changes
===============

Mailboxes and user metadata directories are now organised on disk by UUID
rather than by mailbox name.

At startup (or when you run `ctl_cyrusdb -r` manually),
:cyrusman:`ctl_cyrusdb(8)` will upgrade mailboxes.db to accommodate both
old-style and new-style storage.

By default, new top-level mailboxes will be created in the new style.
Mailboxes that already exist will remain in the old style until you convert
them with :cyrusman:`relocate_by_id(8)`.  New mailboxes below the top level
will be created in the same style as their parent mailbox.

The new :cyrusman:`cyr_ls(8)` tool can be used to examine the on-disk
contents of a given mailbox name.  :cyrusman:`mbpath(8)` can be used to find
where on disk a given mailbox and its metadata are.

If you want new top level mailboxes to be created in the old style, you
can enable the `mailbox_legacy_dirs` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option, which
defaults to **off**.  With this turned on, you may still use `relocate_by_id`
to convert them to the new style.

Updates to default configuration
================================

The :cyrusman:`cyr_info(8)` `conf`, `conf-all` and `conf-default` subcommands
accept an `-s <version>` argument to highlight :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`
options that are new or whose behaviour has changed since the specified
version.  We recommend using this when evaluating a new Cyrus version to
check which configuration options you will need to examine and maybe set or
change during the process.

* The `reverseuniqueids` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option is now deprecated
  and unused.  Reverse UNIQUEID records are now standard and cannot be turned
  off.

Security fixes
==============

* None so far

Significant bugfixes
====================

* Fixed :issue:`3325`: email addresses with quoted-string names were stored in
  the cache and search indexes without quotes, which could cause
  inconsistencies in handling.  Affected mailboxes can be fixed by first
  running :cyrusman:`reconstruct(8)` to repair the cache, and then
  :cyrusman:`squatter(8)` to reindex the mailbox.
* Fixed :issue:`3421`: PROPFIND <C:schedule-calendar-transp> now returns an
  XML element instead of text (thanks Дилян Палаузов)
