:tocdepth: 3

====================================
Cyrus IMAP 3.2.0 Release Notes
====================================

Download from GitHub:

    *   https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-3.2.0/cyrus-imapd-3.2.0.tar.gz
    *   https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-3.2.0/cyrus-imapd-3.2.0.tar.gz.sig

.. _relnotes-3.2.0-changes:

Major changes since the 3.0.x series
====================================

* Sieve bug fixes and features
* Replication safety improvements
* Caldav and Carddav improvements
* Support for JMAP core protocol (:rfc:`8620`)
* Support for JMAP Mail (:rfc:`8621`)
* Experimental support for JMAP Contacts (requires
  `jmap_nonstandard_extensions: yes` in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`)
* Experimental support for JMAP Calendars (requires
  `jmap_nonstandard_extensions: yes` in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`)
* Xapian bug fixes
* Improvements to Annotations handling
* DRAC support has been deprecated
* Support for Prometheus stats
* SNMP stats support has been deprecated
* Removed support for the Sphinx backend to squatter searches
* New cyrus.index format v16 included since 3.1.5 - adds unseen count and
  createdmodseq to index header, savedate and createdmodseq to index records
* Support for WebSockets
* Support for HTTP/2.0
* Experimental support for Zeroskip database format
* Intermediate mailboxes are now recorded in mailboxes database
* Conversations database format update - adds flags and internaldate fields,
  and is now versioned for future-compatibility.  You will need to rebuild
  your conversations databases with :cyrusman:`ctl_conversationsdb(8)` and
  the `-b` switch to benefit from this
* IMAP FETCH accepts two new data items, MAILBOXIDS and MAILBOXES, which
  respectively return the unique ids or names of the containing mailboxes of
  each message in the sequence (for best performance, rebuild your
  conversations databases as above)
* :cyrusman:`mbpath(8)` is now much more useful
* Twoskip database format now supports shared locks, and ensures record
  headers do not span disk block boundaries
* All Cyrus binaries now use real sysexits exit codes instead of mapping
  nearly everything to EX_TEMPFAIL
* CyrusDB errors now syslog the actual error instead of just "cyrusdb error"
* New `allowdeleted` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option (default off), which
  allows admin users to see deleted mailboxes and expunged messages over IMAP
* :cyrusman:`cyr_virusscan(8)` now supports custom templates for notifications
  sent about infected messages that have been deleted
* :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` options that represent a time duration now accept
  'd', 'h', 'm', 's' suffixes rather than arbitrary units
* The `tls_server_cert` and `tls_server_key` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` options
  now allow two certificate/key pairs (e.g. RSA and EC) to be used.  Thanks
  Дилян Палаузов
* Mailbox create/delete/rename are now performed under a lock on the user's
  namespace, to prevent races (especially during big renames)
* The :cyrusman:`cyr_info(8)` `conf-lint` subcommand no longer complains
  about channel-prefixed sync options
* New `master_bind_errors_fatal` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option (default
  off), with which master will refuse to start if any of the configured
  services are unable to successfully bind their port.  The default and legacy
  behaviour is for master to start with the affected services disabled, and
  not try to start them again until a SIGHUP is received
* New `autocreate_acl` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option, for specifying ACLs
  to use when mailboxes are created by `autocreate_inbox_folders`
* New `zoneinfo_dir` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option, for specifying the
  directory Cyrus should look for timezone definitions in.  The default is
  to let libical find them itself.  If the `tzdist` http module is enabled,
  this option is mandatory.
* The iso-8859-1 charset is now treated as an alias for windows-1252, as per
  `WHATWG Encoding for emails and websites
  <https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/#names-and-labels>`_

Updates to default configuration
================================

The :cyrusman:`cyr_info(8)` `conf`, `conf-all` and `conf-default` subcommands
now accept an `-s <version>` argument to highlight :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`
options that are new or whose behaviour has changed since the specified
version.  We recommend using this when evaluating a new Cyrus version to
check which configuration options you will need to re-examine and maybe change
during the process.

* The `specialusealways` option is now enabled by default. It must
  explicitly be disabled for interoperability with legacy clients that
  can't handle RFC 6154 attributes in extended LIST commands.
* The values accepted by `expunge_mode` have changed, please see the
  documentation for more information about the changes.
* The legacy GETANNOTATIONS/SETANNOTATIONS IMAP commands will no longer
  work unless `annotation_enable_legacy_commands` is enabled.
* The `outbox_sendlater` option and its functionality have been removed.
* The `tzdist` http module now finds its timezone data directory according
  to the new `zoneinfo_dir` :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)` option, instead of
  being hardcoded to "{configdirectory}/zoneinfo".  If you are using this
  module, you MUST now set this option explicitly.  Calendaring services
  will use the same timezone definitions.


Security fixes
==============

* Contains fix for `CVE-2017-14230 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-14230>`_
* Contains fix for `CVE-2019-18928 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-18928>`_
* Contains fix for `CVE-2019-19783 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19783>`_


Significant bugfixes
====================

* Contains fix for :issue:`2839`


.. _Xapian: https://xapian.org
.. _ClamAV: https://www.clamav.net
.. _JMAP: http://jmap.io
