.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH RECONSTRUCT 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: arbitron.8,v 1.7.4.1 2003/02/27 18:12:33 rjs3 Exp $

.SH NAME
arbitron \- arbitron mailboxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arbitron
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-d
days
] [
.B \-p
months
]
.br
         \fImailbox\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Arbitron
collects and reports readership statistics for mailboxes on the
server.  It also optionally prunes the mailboxes of \\Seen state for
dormant users.
.PP
.I Arbitron
produces one line of output per mailbox, reporting the number of
readers followed by a space and the name of the mailbox.
\fBIMPORTANT: This format is subject to change in future versions.\fR
.PP
Each "reader" is a distinct authentication identity which has
"s" rights to the mailbox and which has SELECTed the mailbox within
the past
.I days
days.
Users are not counted as reading their own personal mailboxes.
Personal mailboxes are not reported unless there is at least one
reader other than the mailboxes owner.
.PP
.I Arbitron
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-d " days
Count as a reader an authentication identity which has SELECTed the
mailbox within
.I days
days.  Default is 30.
.TP
.BI "\-p " months
Prune \\Seen state for users who have not SELECTed the mailbox within
.I months
months.  Default is infinity.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
