.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH COLLECTNEWS 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.SH NAME
collectnews \- add news articles to Cyrus header files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B collectnews
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Collectnews
reads article data from the standard input.
It uses this information to update the files necessary for reading
the articles through the Cyrus IMAP server.
.I Collectnews
is designed to be used by InterNetNews to update the IMAP database as
the articles come in.
.PP
The input is processed as an INN overview stream written as a ``WR''
entry in the
.IR newsfeeds (5)
file.  This data consists of lines of text of the format
newsgroup/article number, seperated by commas.
.PP
.I Collectnews
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.  The optional
.I newsprefix
option specifies a prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make
the corresponding IMAP mailbox names.
The required
.I partition-news
option specifies the pathname prefix to the IMAP news mailboxes.  The
value of
.I partition-news
concatenated with the dots-to-slashes-converted value of
.I newsprefix
must be the pathname of the news spool directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
