.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CTL_MBOXLIST 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
 *
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: ctl_mboxlist.8,v 1.13 2008/04/04 12:46:50 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
ctl_mboxlist \- perform operations on the mailbox list database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctl_mboxlist
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-d
[
.B \-x
]
[
\fB\-p \fIpartition\fR
]
.br
             [
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
]
.br
.B ctl_mboxlist
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-u
[
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
]
.br
.B ctl_mboxlist
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-m
[
\fB\-a \fR
]
[
\fB\-w \fR
]
[
\fB\-i \fR
]
.br
             [
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
]
.br
.B ctl_mboxlist
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-v
[
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ctl_mboxlist
is used to perform various administrative operations on the mailbox
list database.
.PP
.I Ctl_mboxlist
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
The
.I configdirectory
option is used to determine the default location of the mailbox list database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C\  "config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump the contents of the database to standard output in a portable
flat-text format.  NOTE: In Cyrus versions 2.2.13 and earlier, the dump
format did not include the mailbox type flags, breaking remote
mailboxes (frontends, mupdate master, unified backends) when undumped.
.TP
.B \-x
When performing a dump, remove the mailboxes dumped from the mailbox list
(mostly useful when specified with -p)
.TP
.BI \-p\  "partition"
When performing a dump, dump only thise mailboxes that live on \fIpartition\fR
.TP
.B \-u
Load the contents of the database from standard input.  The input MUST
be in the format output using the \fB\-d\fR option.  NOTE: Both the
old and new formats can be loaded, but the old format will break
remote mailboxes.
.TP
.B \-m
For backend servers in the Cyrus Murder, synchronize the local mailbox list
file with the MUPDATE server.
.TP
.B \-a
When used with -m, assume the local mailboxes file is authoritiative, 
that is, only change the mupdate server, do not delete any local mailboxes.
USE THIS OPTION WITH CARE, as it allows namespace collisions into the murder.
.TP
.B \-w
When used with -m, print out what would be done but do not perform the
operations.
.TP
.B \-i
When used with -m, asks for verification before deleting local mailboxes.
.TP
.B \-v
Verify the consistency of the mailbox list database and the spool
partition(s). Mailboxes present in the database and not located on a
spool partition, and those located on a spool partition (directory
containing a valid cyrus.header file) and not present in the database
will be reported.  Note that this function is very I/O intensive.
.TP
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
Use the database specified by \fIfilename\fR instead of the default
(\fIconfigdirectory\fB/mailboxes.db\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
