.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CTL_DELIVER 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: ctl_deliver.8,v 1.6.4.1 2003/02/27 18:12:33 rjs3 Exp $
.SH NAME
ctl_deliver \- perform operations on the duplicate delivery database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctl_deliver
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.BI \-E " days"
.br
.B ctl_deliver
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-d
[
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ctl_deliver
is used to perform various administrative operations on the duplicate
delivery database.
.PP
.I Ctl_deliver
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
\fB\-E \fIdays\fR
Prune the database of entries older than \fIdays\fR.
.TP
.B \-d
Dump the contents of the database to standard output in a portable
flat-text format.
.TP
\fB\-f \fIfilename\fR
Use the database specified by \fIfilename\fR instead of the default
(\fIconfigdirectory\fB/deliver.db\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
