.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CYR_DBTOOL 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2007 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: cyr_dbtool.8,v 1.2 2007/09/12 15:55:58 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
cyr_dbtool \- manage Cyrus databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cyr_dbtool
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-n
]
<db file> <db backend> <action>
[
<key>
]
[
<value>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cyr_dbtool
is used to manage a cyrusdb file. The usable actions are:
.PP
.BI show " [<prefix>]"
.PP
.BI get " <key>"
.PP
.BI set " <key> <value>"
.PP
.BI delete " <key>"
.PP
You may omit key or key/value and specify one per line on stdin. Keys are
terminated by tab or newline, values are terminated by newline.
.PP
Running without any options will list the available database backends and
usable actions.
.PP
.I cyr_dbtool
reads any applicable configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
note that the file locations are NOT read out of the configuration file,
and must be supplied on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-n
Create the database file if it doesn't already exist.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR
