.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CYR_EXPIRE 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
 *
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: cyr_expire.8,v 1.9 2009/11/05 00:20:09 brong Exp $
.SH NAME
cyr_expire \- expire messages and duplicate delivery database entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cyr_expire
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.BI \-D " delete-days"
]
.BI \-E " expire-days"
[
.BI \-X " expunge-days"
]
[
.B \-p " mailbox-prefix"
]
[
.B \-v
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cyr_expire
is used to expire messages and duplicate delivery database entries.
.I Cyr_expire
also cleanses mailboxes of partially expunged messages
(when using the "delayed" expunge mode).
The expiration of messages is controlled by the
\fB/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire\fR mailbox annotation which
specifies the age (in days) of messages in the given mailbox that
should be deleted.  Any duplicate delivery database entries which
correspond to the mailbox are also deleted at the same frequency.
.br
.sp
The value of the \fB/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire\fR annotation is
inherited by all children of the given mailbox, so an entire mailbox
tree can be expired by seting a single annotation on the root of that
tree.  If a mailbox does not have a
\fB/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire\fR annotation set on it (or does not
inherit one), then no messages are expired from the mailbox.
.PP
.I Cyr_expire
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
\fB\-D \fIdelete-days\fR
Remove previously deleted mailboxes older than \fIdelete-days\fR
(when using the "delayed" delete mode).
.TP
\fB\-E \fIexpire-days\fR
Prune the duplicate database of entries older than \fIexpire-days\fR.  This
value is only used for entries which do not have a corresponding
\fB/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire\fR mailbox annotation.
.TP
\fB\-X \fIexpunge-days\fR
Expunge previously deleted messages older than \fIexpunge-days\fR
(when using the "delayed" expunge mode).
.TP
\fB \-x
Do not expunge messages even if using delayed expunge mode (reduces the
IO hit considerably, allowing you to run cyr_expire frequently to clean
up the duplicate database without overloading your server)
.TP
\fB\-p \fImailbox-prefix\fR
Only find mailboxes starting with this prefix.  e.g.
"user.justgotspammedlots"
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-a
Skip the annotation lookup, so all \fB/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire\fR
annotations are ignored entirely.  It behaves as if they were not set, so
only \fIexpire-days\fR is considered for all mailboxes.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
