.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CYRUS.CONF 5 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: cyrus.conf.5,v 1.7.4.2 2003/02/22 14:10:28 ken3 Exp $
.SH NAME
cyrus.conf \- Cyrus configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/etc/cyrus.conf\fR 
is the configuration file for the Cyrus \fBmaster\fR process.  It
defines the startup procedures, services and events to be spawned by
\fBmaster\fR.
.PP
The \fB/etc/cyrus.conf\fR file consists of a series of entries divided
into sections of the form
.P
.RS
\fIsection\fR {
.RS
\fIname arguments
.br
	...
.br
	...
.br
	...
\fR
.RE
}
.RE
.PP
where \fIsection\fR is the name of the section, \fIname\fR is the name
of the entry and \fIarguments\fR is the whitespace-separated list of
arguments for the entry.
.PP
Blank lines and lines beginning with ``#'' are ignored.
.SH SECTION DESCRIPTIONS
The paragraphs below detail the three sections (\fBSTART\fR,
\fBSERVICES\fR, \fBEVENTS\fR) that can be placed in the
\fB/etc/cyrus.conf\fR file.  The arguments that are available for each
entry within the section are described, and each argument's default
value is shown.
.PP
Arguments can appear in any order.
Some arguments have no default value, these are listed with
``<no default>''.  For string arguments, the value MUST be enclosed in
double quotes.
.SS START
This section lists the processes to run before any
\fBSERVICES\fR are spawned.  This section is typically used to
initialize databases and start long running daemons.
.IP "\fBcmd=\fR<no default>" 5
The command (with options) to spawn as a child process.  This string argument
is required.
.SS SERVICES
This section is the heart of the \fB/etc/cyrus.conf\fR file.  It lists
the processes that should be spawned to handle client connections made
on certain Internet/UNIX sockets.
.IP "\fBcmd=\fR<no default>" 5
The command (with options) to spawn as a child process.  This string
argument is required.
.IP "\fBlisten=\fR<no default>" 5
The UNIX or internet socket to listen on.  This
string field is required and takes one of the following forms:

\fIpath\fR
.br
\fR[ \fIhost\fR \fB: \fR] \fIport\fR
.br
.sp
where \fIpath\fR is the explicit path to a UNIX socket, \fIhost\fR is
either the hostname or bracket-enclosed IP address of a network
interface, and \fIport\fR is either a port number or service name (as listed
in \fB/etc/services\fR).
.IP "\fBproto=\fRtcp" 5
The protocol used for this service (\fItcp\fR, \fIudp\fR).  This
string argument is optional.
.IP "\fBprefork=\fR0" 5
The number of instances of this service to always have running and
waiting for a connection (for faster initial response time).  This
integer value is optional.
.IP "\fBmaxchild=\fR-1" 5
The maximum number of instances of this service to spawn.  A value of
-1 means unlimited.  This integer value is optional.
.IP "\fBmaxfds=\fR256" 5
The maximum number of file descriptors to which to limit this process.
This integer value is optional.
.SS EVENTS
This section lists processes that should be run at specific intervals,
similar to cron jobs.  This section is typically used to perform
scheduled cleanup/maintenance.
.IP "\fBcmd=\fR<no default>" 5
The command (with options) to spawn as a child process.  This string
argument is required.
.IP "\fBperiod=\fR0" 5
The interval (in minutes) at which to run the command.  This integer value is
optional, but SHOULD be a positive integer > 10.
.IP "\fBat=\fR<hhmm>" 5
The time (24-hour format) at which to run the command each day.  If
set to a valid time (0000-2359), period is automatically set to 1440.
This string argument is optional.
.SH EXAMPLE
# example cyrus.conf

START {
  recover	cmd="ctl_cyrusdb -r"
.br
}

SERVICES {
  imap		cmd="imapd" listen="imap" prefork=1
  imaps		cmd="imapd -s" listen="imaps" prefork=0
  lmtpunix	cmd="lmtpd" listen="/var/imap/socket/lmtp"
  lmtp		cmd="lmtpd" listen="localhost:lmtp"
.br
}

EVENTS {
  checkpoint	cmd="ctl_cyrusdb -c" period=30
  delprune	cmd="ctl_deliver -E 3" at=0400
  tlsprune	cmd="tls_prune" at=0400
.br
}
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
When TCP Wrappers is used to control access to Cyrus services, the
\fIname\fR of the service entry should be used as the process name in
the \fBhosts_access(5)\fR table.  For instance, in the example above,
"imap", "imaps", "lmtpunix" and "lmtp" would be used as the process
names.  This allows a single daemon such as imapd to be run in
different modes or configurations (i.e., SSL and non-SSL enabled) yet
still have separate access control rules.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBmaster(8)\fR, \fBimapd(8)\fR, \fBpop3d(8)\fR, \fBlmtpd(8)\fR,
\fBtimsieved(8)\fR, \fBidled(8)\fR, \fBnotifyd(8)\fR, \fBctl_cyrusdb(8)\fR,
\fBctl_deliver(8)\fR, \fBtls_prune(8)\fR, \fBhosts_access(5)\fR
