.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH DELIVER 8
.\" 	(C) Copyright 1994 by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\"                      All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its 
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, 
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
.\" both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\" supporting documentation, and that the name of CMU not be
.\" used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
.\" software without specific, written prior permission.  
.\" 
.\" CMU DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
.\" ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" CMU BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE.
.SH NAME
deliver \- deliver mail to an IMAP mailbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deliver
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-r
.I address
]
[
.B \-f
.I address
]
[
.B \-m
.I mailbox
]
[
.B \-a
.I auth-id
]
[
.B \-i
message-id
]
[
.B \-F
flag
]...
.br
[
.I userid
]...
.br
.B deliver
.B \-I 
.I days
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deliver
reads a message from the standard input and delivers it to one or more
IMAP mailboxes.
.PP
.I Deliver
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Ignored for compatability with 
.B /bin/mail.
.TP
.BI \-r " address"
Ignored for compatability with 
.B /bin/mail.
.TP
.BI \-f " address"
Ignored for compatability with 
.B /bin/mail.
.TP
.BI \-m " mailbox"
Deliver to 
.IR mailbox .
If any
.IR userid s
are specified, attempts to deliver to
.RI user. userid . mailbox
for each 
.IR userid .
If the ACL on any such mailbox does not grant the sender the "p" right
or if 
.B \-m
is not specified,
then delivers to the INBOX for the
.IR userid ,
regardless of the ACL on the INBOX.
If no
.IR userid s
are specified, attempts to deliver to
.IR mailbox .
If the ACL on
.I mailbox
does not grant the sender the "p" right, the delivery fails.
.TP
.BI \-a " auth-id"
Specify the authorization id of the sender.  Defaults to "anonymous".
.TP
.BI \-i " message-id"
Enable duplicate delivery suppression, specifying the message-id of
the message.  Will suppress delivery of the message to a mailbox if a
message with the same message-id is recorded as having already been
delivered to the mailbox.  Records the mailbox and message-id of all
successful deliveries.
.TP
.BI \-F " flag"
Set the system flag or keyword
.I flag
on the delivered message.
.TP
.BI \-I " days"
Prune the duplicate delivery database of entries older than
.IR days .
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
