.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH FETCHNEWS 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: fetchnews.8,v 1.1.2.1 2002/10/09 20:58:30 ken3 Exp $
.SH NAME
fetchnews \- retrieve new articles from peer and feed to Cyrus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fetchnews
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-s
.I servername
]
.br
          [
.B \-w
.I wildmat
]
[
.B \-f
.I tstampfile
]
.I peername
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fetchnews
retrieves news articles from a peer news server and feeds them to a
Cyrus server.
.I Fetchnews
connects to the peer specified by
.IR peername ,
requests new articles since the time stored in
.I tstampfile
and feeds them to
.IR servername .
.PP
.I Fetchnews
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-s " servername"
Hostname of server to which articles should be fed.  Defaults to
"localhost".
.TP
.BI \-w " wildmat"
Wildmat pattern specifying which newsgroups to search for new
articles.  Defaults to "*".
.TP
.BI \-f " tstampfile"
File in which to read/write the timestamp of when articles were last
retrieved.  Defaults to "newsstamp" located in
.I configdir
as specified by the configuration options.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
