.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IMAPD.CONF 5 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.SH NAME
imapd.conf \- IMAP configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR 
is the configuration file for the Cyrus IMAP server.  It defines
local parameters for IMAP. 
.PP
Each line of the \fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR file has the form
.IP
\fIoption\fR: \fIvalue\fR
.PP
where \fIoption\fR is the name of the configuration option being set
and \fIvalue\fR is the value that the configuration option is being
set to.
.PP
Blank lines and lines beginning with ``#'' are ignored.
.PP
For boolean options, the values ``yes'', ``on'', ``t'', and ``1'' turn the
option on, the values ``no'', ``off'', ``f'', and ``0'' turn the option off.
.SH FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
.PP
The sections below detail options that can be placed in the
\fB/etc/imapd.conf\fR file, and show each option's default value.
Some options have no default value, these are listed with
``<no default>''.  Some options default to the empty string, these
are listed with ``<none>''.
.IP "\fBconfigdirectory:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the IMAP configuration directory.  This field is required.
.IP "\fBdefaultpartition:\fR default" 5
The partition name used by default for new mailboxes.
.IP "\fBpartition-\fIname\fB:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the partition \fIname\fR.  At least one field, for the
partition named in the \fBdefaultpartition\fR option, is required.
For example, if the value of the \fBdefaultpartion\fR option is
\fBdefault\fR, then the \fBpartition-default\fR field is required.
.IP "\fBunixhierarchysep:\fR no" 5
Use the UNIX separator character '/' for delimiting levels of mailbox
hierarchy.  The default is to use the netnews separator character '.'. 
.IP "\fBaltnamespace:\fR no" 5
Use the alternate IMAP namespace, where personal folders reside at the
same level in the hierarchy as INBOX.
.br
.sp
This option ONLY applies where interaction takes place with the
client/user.  Currently this is limited to the IMAP protocol (imapd)
and Sieve scripts (lmtpd).  This option does NOT apply to admin tools
such as cyradm (admins ONLY), reconstruct, quota, etc., NOR does it
affect LMTP delivery of messages directly to mailboxes via plus-addressing.
.IP "\fBuserprefix:\fR Other Users" 5
If using the alternate IMAP namespace, the prefix for the other users
namespace.  The hierarchy delimiter will be automatically appended.
.IP "\fBsharedprefix:\fR Shared Folders" 5
If using the alternate IMAP namespace, the prefix for the shared
namespace.  The hierarchy delimiter will be automatically appended.
.IP "\fBumask:\fR 077" 5
The umask value used by various Cyrus IMAP programs.
.IP "\fBservername:\fR <result returned by gethostname(2)>" 5
This is the hostname visible in the greeting messages of the POP, IMAP and LMTP
daemons. If it is unset, then the result returned from gethostname(2) is used.
.IP "\fBallowanonymouslogin:\fR no" 5
Permit logins by the user "anonymous" using any password.  Also allows
use of the SASL ANONYMOUS mechanism.
.IP "\fBallowplaintext:\fR yes" 5
Allow the use of the SASL PLAIN mechanism.
.IP "\fBquotawarn:\fR 90" 5
The percent of quota utilization over which the server generates
warnings.
.IP "\fBtimeout:\fR 30" 5
The length of the IMAP server's inactivity autologout timer,
in minutes.  The minimum value is 30, the default.
.IP "\fBimapidlepoll:\fR 60" 5
The interval (in seconds) for polling the mailbox for changes while
running the IDLE command.  This option is used when idled can not be
contacted or when polling is used exclusively.  The minimum value is
1.  A value of 0 will disable polling (and disable IDLE if polling is
the only method available).
.IP "\fBimapidresponse:\fR yes" 5
If enabled, the server responds to an ID command with a parameter
list containing: version, vendor, support-url, os, os-version,
command, arguments, environment.  Otherwise the server returns NIL.
.IP "\fBpoptimeout:\fR 10" 5
Set the length of the POP server's inactivity autologout timer,
in minutes.  The minimum value is 10, the default.
.IP "\fBpopminpoll:\fR 0" 5
Set the minimum amount of time the server forces users to wait between
successive POP logins,
in minutes.  The default is 0.
.IP "\fBpopexpiretime:\fR 0" 5
The number of days advertised as being the minimum a message may be left on
the POP server before it is deleted (via the CAPA command, defined in the POP3
Extension Mechanism, which some clients may support).  "NEVER", the default,
may be specified with a negative number.  The Cyrus POP3 server never deletes
mail, no matter what the value of this parameter is.  However, if a site
implements a less liberal policy, it needs to change this parameter
accordingly.
.IP "\fBadmins:\fR <none>" 5
The list of userids with administrative rights.  Separate each userid
with a space.  Sites using Kerberos authentication may use
separate "admin" instances.
.PP
Note that accounts used by users should not be administrators.  Administrative 
accounts should not receive mail.  That is, if user "jbRo" is a user reading
mail, he should not also be in the admins line.  Some problems may occur
otherwise, most notably  the ability of administrators to create top-level
mailboxes visible to users, but not writable by users.
.IP "\fBproxyservers:\fR <none>" 5
A list of users and groups that are allowed to proxy for other users,
seperated by spaces.  Any user listed in this will be allowed to login
for any other user: use with caution.
.IP "\fBdefaultacl:\fR anyone lrs" 5
The Access Control List (ACL) placed on a newly-created (non-user) 
mailbox that does not have a parent mailbox.
.IP "\fBnewsspool\fB:\fR <no default>" 5
The pathname of the news spool directory.  Only used if the
\fBpartition-news\fR configuration option is set.
.IP "\fBnewsprefix:\fR <none>" 5
Prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make the corresponding
IMAP mailbox names.
.IP "\fBautocreatequota:\fR 0" 5
If nonzero, normal users may create their own IMAP accounts by
creating the mailbox INBOX.  The user's quota is set to the value if
it is positive, otherwise the user has unlimited quota.
.IP "\fBlogtimestamps:\fR no" 5
Include notations in the protocol telemetry logs indicating the number of
seconds since the last command or response.
.IP "\fBplaintextloginpause:\fR 0" 5
Number of seconds to pause after a successful plaintext login.  For
systems that support strong authentication, this permits users to
perceive a cost of using plaintext passwords.  (This does not effect
the use of PLAIN in SASL authentications.)
.IP "\fBsrvtab:\fR /etc/srvtab" 5
The pathname of \fIsrvtab\fR file containing the server's private 
key.  This option is passed to the SASL library and overrides its
default setting.
.IP "\fBloginrealms:\fR <none>" 5
The list of remote realms whose users may log in using 
cross-realm authentications.  Seperate each realm name
by a space.  (A cross-realm identity is considered any identity
returned by SASL with an "@" in it.)
.IP "\fBloginuseacl:\fR no" 5
If enabled, any authentication identity which has \fBa\fR rights on a
user's INBOX may log in as that user.
.IP "\fBsingleinstancestore:\fR yes" 5
If enabled, lmtpd attempts to only write one copy of a message per
partition and create hard links, resulting in a potentially large disk
savings.
.IP "\fBduplicatesuppression:\fR yes" 5
If enabled, lmtpd will suppress delivery of a message to a mailbox if
a message with the same message-id (or resent-message-id) is recorded
as having already been delivered to the mailbox.  Records the mailbox
and message-id/resent-message-id of all successful deliveries.
.br
.sp
Note that duplicate delivery suppression is required for Sieve.
Disabling duplicate delivery suppression will also disable Sieve, and
as such should only be disabled for performance reasons.
.IP "\fBreject8bit:\fR no" 5
If enabled, lmtpd rejects messages with 8-bit characters in the headers.
Otherwise, 8-bit characters are changed to `X'.  (A proper soultion to
non-ASCII characters in headers is offered by RFC 2047 and its predecessors.)
.IP "\fBmaxmessagesize:\fR <unlimited>" 5
Maximum incoming LMTP message size.  If set, lmtpd will
reject messages larger than \fImaxmessagesize\fR bytes.  The default
is to allow messages of any size.
.IP "\fBpostuser:\fR <none>" 5
Userid used to deliver messages to shared folders.  For example, if
set to "bb", email sent to "bb+shared.blah" would be delivered to the
"shared.blah" folder.  By default, an email address of "+shared.blah"
would be used.
.IP "\fBnetscapeurl:\fR http://andrew2.andrew.cmu.edu/cyrus/imapd/netscape-admin.html" 5
If enabled at compile time, this specifies a URL to reply when Netscape
asks the server where the mail administration HTTP server is.  The default
is a site at CMU with a hopefully informative message; administrators
should set this to a local resource with some information of greater
use.
.IP "\fBsieveusehomedir:\fR false" 5
If enabled, lmtpd will look for Sieve scripts in user's home
directories: ~user/.sieve.
.IP "\fBsievedir:\fR /usr/sieve" 5
If sieveusehomedir is false, this directory is searched for Sieve
scripts.
.IP "\fBsendmail:\fR /usr/lib/sendmail" 5
The pathname of the sendmail executable.  Sieve uses sendmail for sending
rejections, redirects and vacation responses.
.IP "\fBpostmaster:\fR postmaster" 5
Username that is used as the 'From' address in rejection MDNs produced
by sieve.
.IP "\fBhashimapspool:\fR false" 5
If enabled, the partitions will also be hashed, in addition to the
hashing done on configuration directories.  This is recommended if one
partition has a very bushy mailbox tree.
.IP "\fBsieve_maxscriptsize:\fR 32" 5
Maximum size (in kilobytes) any sieve script can be, enforced at
submission by timsieved(8).
.IP "\fBsieve_maxscripts:\fR 5" 5
Maximum number of sieve scripts any user may have, enforced at
submission by timsieved(8).
.IP "\fBsasl_maximum_layer:\fR 256" 5
Maximum SSF (security strength factor) that the server will allow a
client to negotiate.
.IP "\fBsasl_minimum_layer:\fR 0" 5
The minimum SSF that the server will allow a client to negotiate.  A
value of 1 requires integrity protection; any higher value requires
some amount of encryption.
.IP "\fBsasl_pwcheck_method:\fR auxprop" 5
The mechanism used by the server to verify plaintext passwords.
Possible values also include "saslauthd" and "pwcheck".
.IP "\fBsasl_auto_transition:\fR no" 5
If enabled, the SASL library will automatically create authentication
secrets when given a plaintext password.  See the SASL documentation.
.IP "\fBsasl_option:\fR" 5
Any other SASL option can be set by preceeding it with "sasl_".  This
file overrides the SASL configuration file.
.IP "\fBtls_cert_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the global certificate used for ALL services (imap,
pop3, lmtp).
.IP "\fBtls_key_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the private key belonging to the global server
certificate.
.IP "\fBtls_imap_cert_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the certificate used for imap ONLY.  If not specified,
the global certificate is used.  A value of "disabled" will disable
SSL/TLS for imap.
.IP "\fBtls_imap_key_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the private key belonging to the imap-specific server
certificate.  If not specified, the global private key is used.  A
value of "disabled" will disable SSL/TLS for imap.
.IP "\fBtls_pop3_cert_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the certificate used for pop3 ONLY.  If not specified,
the global certificate is used.  A value of "disabled" will disable
SSL/TLS for pop3.
.IP "\fBtls_pop3_key_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the private key belonging to the pop3-specific server
certificate.  If not specified, the global private key is used.  A
value of "disabled" will disable SSL/TLS for pop3.
.IP "\fBtls_lmtp_cert_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the certificate used for lmtp ONLY.  If not specified,
the global certificate is used.  A value of "disabled" will disable
TLS for lmtp.
.IP "\fBtls_lmtp_key_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the private key belonging to the lmtp-specific server
certificate.  If not specified, the global private key is used.  A
value of "disabled" will disable TLS for lmtp.
.IP "\fBtls_sieve_cert_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the certificate used for sieve ONLY.  If not specified,
the global certificate is used.  A value of "disabled" will disable
TLS for sieve.
.IP "\fBtls_sieve_key_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing the private key belonging to the sieve-specific server
certificate.  If not specified, the global private key is used.  A
value of "disabled" will disable TLS for sieve.
.IP "\fBtls_ca_file:\fR <none>" 5
File containing one or more Certificate Authority (CA) certificates.
.IP "\fBtls_ca_path:\fR <none>" 5
Path to directory with certificates of CAs.
.IP "\fBtls_session_timeout:\fR 1440" 5
The length of time (in minutes) that a TLS session will be cached for
later reuse.  The maximum value is 1440 (24 hours), the default.  A
value of 0 will disable session caching.
.IP "\fBtls_cipher_list:\fR DEFAULT" 5
The list of SSL/TLS ciphers to allow.  The format of the string is
described in ciphers(1).
.IP "\fBdeleteright:\fR c" 5
The right that a user needs to delete a mailbox.
.IP "\fBlmtpsocket:\fR /var/imap/socket/lmtp" 5
Unix domain socket that lmtpd listens on, used by deliver(8).
.IP "\fBidlesocket:\fR /var/imap/socket/idle" 5
Unix domain socket that idled listens on.
.IP "\fBnotifysocket:\fR /var/imap/socket/notify" 5
Unix domain socket that the new mail notification daemon listens on.
.IP "\fBnotifysocket:\fR /var/imap/socket/notify" 5
Unix domain socket that the new mail notification daemon listens on.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd(8)\fR, \fBpop3d(8)\fR, \fBlmtpd(8)\fR, \fBtimsieved(8)\fR,
\fBidled(8)\fR, \fBdeliver(8)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR, \fBciphers(1)\fR
