.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IMAPD 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: imapd.8,v 1.14 2002/06/03 18:22:32 rjs3 Exp $
.SH NAME
imapd \- IMAP server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imapd
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-D
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-p
.I ssf
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Imapd
is an IMAP4rev1 server.
It accepts commands on its standard input and responds on its standard output.
It MUST be invoked by
.IR master (8)
with those descriptors attached to a remote client connection.
.PP
.I Imapd
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.PP
If the file
msg/shutdown
is created under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will shut down the connection, sending the first line contained in the
file to the client as the reason.  New connections are denied.
.PP
If the file
msg/motd
is created under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will send the first line contained in the file to clients upon connect as
an ALERT message which IMAP-compliant clients are required to display.
This option serves to annoy users mostly.  Unfortunately clients tend to
connect far more frequently than is apparent, causing each connection to
generate a seperate server ALERT for each connection.  Many clients do not
display these properly, if they do anything with them at all.
.PP
If the directory
.RI log/ user
exists under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I imapd
will create protocol telemetry logs for sessions authenticating as
.IR user .
The telemetry logs will be stored in the 
.RI log/ user
directory with a filename of the
.I imapd
process-id.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-D
Run external debugger specified in debug_command.
.TP
.BI \-s
Serve IMAP over SSL (imaps).  All data to and from
.I imapd
is encrypted using the Secure Sockets Layer.
.TP
.BI \-p " ssf"
Tell
.I imapd
that an external layer exists.  An SSF (security strength factor) of 1
means an integrity protection layer exists.  Any higher SSF implies
some form of privacy protection.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
