.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH IPURGE 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: ipurge.8,v 1.4.4.1 2002/11/13 14:44:54 ken3 Exp $
.SH NAME
ipurge \- delete mail from IMAP mailbox or partition based on age or size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipurge
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-x
]
[
.B \-s
]
.br
       [
.BI \-d " days"
|
.BI \-b " bytes"
|
.BI \-k " Kbytes"
|
.BI \-m " Mbytes"
]
.br
       [
.IR mailbox-pattern ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ipurge
deletes messages from the mailbox(es) specified by
\fImailbox-pattern\fR that are older or larger than specified by the
\fB-d\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-k\fR or \fB-m\fR options.  If no
\fImailbox-pattern\fR is given, \fIipurge\fR works on all mailboxes.  If the
\fB-x\fR option is given, the message age and size MUST match exactly
those specified by \fB-d\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-k\fR or \fB-m\fR.  The are
no default values, and at least one of \fB-d\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-k\fR or
\fB-m\fR MUST be specified.
.PP
.I Ipurge
by default only deletes mail below shared folders, which means that mails
in mailbox(es) below INBOX.* and user.* stay untouched. Use the option
\fB-f\fR to also delete mail in mailbox(es) below these folders.
.PP
.I Ipurge
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f
Force deletion of mail in \fIall\fR mailboxes.
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-d " days"
Age of message in \fIdays\fR.
.TP
.BI \-b " bytes"
Size of message in \fIbytes\fR.
.TP
.BI \-k " Kbytes"
Size of message in \fIKbytes\fR (2^10 bytes).
.TP
.BI \-m " Mbytes"
Size of message in \fIMbytes\fR (2^20 bytes).
.TP
.B \-x
Perform an exact match on age or size (instead of older or larger).
.TP
.B \-s
Skip over messages that have the \\Flagged flag set.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
