.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH MAKE_SHA1 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-2008 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any legal
.\"    details, please contact
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
.\"      4615 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Suite 302
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213
.\"      (412) 268-7393, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      innovation@andrew.cmu.edu
 *
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" $Id: make_sha1.8,v 1.2 2008/04/04 12:46:57 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
make_sha1 \- Generate SHA1 checksums for given set of users.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make_sha1
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-D
.I md5_dir
]
[
.B \-k
.I count
]
[
.B \-f
.I input_file
]
[
.B \-m
.I offset
]
[
.B \-M
.I modulo
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.IR userid ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate SHA1 checksums for messages given set of users. Works as
incremental update: reads in existing set of SHA1 checksums from
\fIsha1_dir/u/userid\fR (hashed on first letter of userid) if that file
exists. Scans account looking for new messages, and then updates record.

The SHA1 checksums which are generated are used to test integrity of the
master, replica and backup systems on Hermes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-D " sha1_dir"
Read and write SHA1 checksums from \fIsha1_dir\fR, overrides configuration
file setting of the same name.
.TP
.BI \-k " count"
Concurrency level: run up to
.I count
asynchronous child processes.
.TP
.BI \-f " input_file"
List of accounts to process: use in place of command line arguments.
.TP
.BI \-m " offset"
Regenerate given fraction of the user database in combination with \-M below.
.TP
.BI \-M " modulo"
Regenerate SHA1 checksums for given fraction of user database. Allows for
rolling consisency checks.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose mode.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH AUTHORS
David Carter (dpc22@cam.ac.uk)