.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH NNTPD 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: nntpd.8,v 1.1.2.3 2003/05/16 14:29:16 ken3 Exp $
.SH NAME
nntpd \- NNTP server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nntpd
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-U
.I uses
]
[
.B \-T
.I timeout
]
[
.B \-D
]
.br
      [
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-r
]
[
.B \-f
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nntpd
is a NNTP server.
It accepts commands on its standard input and responds on its standard output.
It MUST invoked by
.IR master (8)
with those descriptors attached to a remote client connection.
.PP
.I Nntpd
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.  The optional
.I newsprefix
option specifies a prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make
the corresponding IMAP mailbox names.  The optional
.I newspostuser
option specifies the special userid to be used when contructing the To:
header address for following up to articles when read via IMAP.  The
optional
.I newspeer
option specifies the fully qualified hostname of the upstream news
server to which articles are fed.  The optional
.I allownewnews
option enables the NNTP NEWNEWS command.  NOTE: For servers with a large
volume of articles, the NEWNEWS command can be expensive.
.PP
If the directory
.RI log/ user
exists under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I nntpd
will create protocol telemetry logs for sessions authenticating as
.IR user .
The telemetry logs will be stored in the 
.RI log/ user
directory with a filename of the
.I nntpd
process-id.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-U " uses"
The maximum number of times that the process should be used for new
connections before shutting down.  The default is 250.
.TP
.BI \-T " timeout"
The number of seconds that the process will wait for a new connection
before shutting down.  Note that a value of 0 (zero) will disable the
timeout.  The default is 60.
.TP
.BI \-D
Run external debugger specified in debug_command.
.TP
.BI \-s
Serve NNTP over SSL (nntps).  All data to and from
.I nntpd
is encrypted using the Secure Sockets Layer.
.TP
.BI \-r
Only allow NNTP reader commands.  Permitted clients will only be
allowed to read/post articles.
.TP
.BI \-f
Only allow NNTP feeder commands.  Permitted clients will only be
allowed to feed articles (no reading).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR
