.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH NOTIFYD 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.SH NAME
notifyd \- Cyrus notification server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notifyd
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Notifyd
is a daemon started from master(8) that handles notification requests on
behalf of lmtpd(8).
.B Notifyd
accepts the request and performs the notification using the method
specified in the request.
.PP
.B Notifyd
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
The
.I notifysocket
option is used to specify the Unix domain socket to listen on for
notifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.SH NOTIFICATION METHODS
.TP
.B null
Ignore the notification request.
.TP
.B log
Log the notification to syslog (for testing).
.TP
.B mailto
Email the notification.  This method can ONLY be used in a Sieve
'notify' action as it requires a \fImailto:\fR URL to be specified as an
\fI:option\fR.
.TP
.B zephyr
Send the notification as a zephyrgram.  If used in a Sieve 'notify'
action, additional recipients can be specified as \fI:options\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
Default configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/cyrus.conf
Cyrus Master process configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR, \fBcyrus.conf\fR, \fBmaster(8)\fR, \fBlmtpd(8)\fR