.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH POP3D 8
.\" Copyright 1998 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\" No warranties, either expressed or implied, are made regarding the
.\" operation, use, or results of the software.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted for non-commercial purposes only
.\" provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies and in
.\" supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" Permission is also granted to Internet Service Providers and others
.\" entities to use the software for internal purposes.
.\"
.\" The distribution, modification or sale of a product which uses or is
.\" based on the software, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes or
.\" benefits requires specific, additional permission from:
.\"
.\"  Office of Technology Transfer
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"  Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"  (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"  tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.SH NAME
pop3d \- POP3 server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pop3d
[
.B \-k
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pop3d
is a POP3 server.
It accepts commands on its standard input and responds on its standard output.
It is normally invoked by
.IR inetd (8)
with those descriptors attached to a remote client connection.
.PP
.I Pop3d
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file.
.PP
If the directory
.RI log/ user
exists under the directory specified in the
.I configdirectory
configuration option, then
.I pop3d
will create protocol telemetry logs for sessions authenticating as
.IR user .
The telemetry logs will be stored in the 
.RI log/ user
directory with a filename of the
.I pop3d
process-id.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-k
Serve MIT's KPOP (Kerberized POP) protocol instead.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
