.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH QUOTA 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: quota.8,v 1.8.4.2 2003/03/08 04:18:55 ken3 Exp $
.SH NAME
quota \- report and optionally fix quota usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quota
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
[
.B \-d
.I domain
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.IR mailbox-prefix ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quota
generates a report listing quota roots, giving their limits and usage.
If the
.I \-f
option is given, 
.I quota
first fixes any inconsistencies in the quota subsystem, such as
mailboxes with the wrong quota root or quota roots with the wrong
quota usage reported.
If an optional
.I domain
is given, the quota listing (and inconsistency fixing) is performed in
that domain rather than the default domain.
If any optional
.I mailbox-prefix
arguments are given, the quota listing (and inconsistency fixing) is
limited to quota roots with names that start with one of the given
prefixes.
.PP
Running
.I quota
with both the 
.I \-f
option and
.I mailbox-prefix
arguments is not recommended.
.PP
.I Quota
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-d " domain"
List/fix quotas in \fIdomain\fR.
.TP
.B \-f
Fix any inconsistencies in the quota subsystem before generating a
report.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
