.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH RMNEWS 8
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: rmnews.8,v 1.6.4.1 2003/02/27 18:12:34 rjs3 Exp $
.SH NAME
rmnews \- expunge and remove news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmnews
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmnews
reads article data from the standard input.
It then expunges and removes the listed articles.
.I Rmnews
is designed to be used by InterNetNews to remove canceled, superseded,
and expired news articles.
.PP
The input is processed as an INN 
.I expirerm
file listing or an INN cancel
stream written as a ``WC'' entry in the
.IR newsfeeds (5)
file.  This data consists of lines of text, each containing a list of
relative article pathnames, with a single space between entries.  If
a listed file is contained in an IMAP news mailbox, it is expunged out
of that mailbox.  In any case, each listed file is unlinked.
.PP
.I Rmnews
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file.  The optional
.I newsprefix
option specifies a prefix to be prepended to newsgroup names to make
the corresponding IMAP mailbox names.
The required
.I partition-news
option specifies the pathname prefix to the IMAP news mailboxes.  The
value of
.I partition-news
concatenated with the dots-to-slashes-converted value of
.I newsprefix
must be the pathname of the news spool directory.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
