.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH SYNCNEWS 8
.\" 	(C) Copyright 1994 by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" 
.\"                      All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
.\" and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies
.\" and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
.\" appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Carnegie
.\" Mellon University not be used in advertising or publicity
.\" pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  Carnegie Mellon University makes no
.\" representations about the suitability of this software for any
.\" purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE.
.SH NAME
syncnews \- synchronize IMAP news mailboxes with active file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syncnews
.I active-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Syncnews
compares the list of IMAP news mailboxes with the news active file.
News mailboxes which are not listed in the active file are removed.
Newsgroups listed in the active file but not in the IMAP mailboxes
file have IMAP mailboxes created.
.PP
A newsgroup must have a status of ``y'', ``m'', or ``n'' to be
considered listed in the active file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH BUGS
If a newsgroup is listed in the active file, but does not have the
news spool directories created, 
.I syncnews
will create those news spool directories in the process of creating
the IMAP mailbox.  The created directories are likely to then have
ownership and permissions that do not permit the news server to write
article files.

