.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH UNEXPUNGE 8 "Project Cyrus" CMU
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
.\"    details, please contact  
.\"      Office of Technology Transfer
.\"      Carnegie Mellon University
.\"      5000 Forbes Avenue
.\"      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
.\"      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
.\"      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu
.\"
.\" 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
.\"     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."
.\"
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: unexpunge.8,v 1.2 2006/11/30 17:11:23 murch Exp $
.SH NAME
unexpunge \- restore expunged (but yet unremoved) messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unexpunge
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-l
.I mailbox
.br
.B unexpunge
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-a
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-v
]
.I mailbox
.br
.B unexpunge
[
.B \-C
.I config-file
]
.B \-u
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-v
]
.IR "mailbox uid" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Unexpunge
is used to restore expunged messages which have yet to be removed from
the Cyrus mailspool.  This utility is only useful when the server is
configured to use \fBdelayed\fR expunge.
.PP
.I Unexpunge
reads its configuration options out of the
.IR imapd.conf (5)
file unless specified otherwise by \fB-C\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " config-file"
Read configuration options from \fIconfig-file\fR.
.TP
.B \-l
List the expunged messages in the specified mailbox which are available
for restoration.
.TP
.B \-a
Restore \fBall\fR of the expunged messages in the specified mailbox. 
.TP
.B \-u
Restore only those messages having the specified UIDs in the specified
mailbox.
.TP
.B \-d
Unset the \fI\\Deleted\fR flag on any restored messages.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose output/logging.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/imapd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBimapd.conf(5)\fR
