docsrc/imap/reference/manpages/systemcommands/cyr_expire.rst, before:

.. cyrusman:: cyr_expire(8)

.. author: Nic Bernstein (Onlight)
.. author: Jeroen van Meeuwen (Kolab Systems)

.. _imap-reference-manpages-systemcommands-cyr_expire:

==============
**cyr_expire**
==============

Expire messages and duplicate delivery database entries

Synopsis
========

.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire** [ **-C** *config-file* ] [ **-A** *archive-duration* ]
    [ **-D** *delete-duration* ] [ **-E** *expire-duration* ] [ **-X** *expunge-duration* ]
    [ **-p** *mailbox-pre‐fix* ] [ **-u** *username* ] [ **-t** ] [ **-v** ]
    [ **-a** ] [ **-c** ] [ **-x** ]

Description
===========

**cyr_expire** is used to run a number of regular maintenance tasks
on Cyrus databases, specifically:

- expire messages from mailboxes, and
- expire entries from the duplicate delivery database, and
- cleanse mailboxes of partially expunged messages (when using the "delayed" expunge mode), and
- remove deleted mailboxes (when using the "delayed" delete mode), and
- expire entries from conversations databases, and
- archive messages from mailbox.

There are various annotations that **cyr_expire** respects:

- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` which controls the expirations of
  messages
- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/archive`` which controls the archival of
  messages
- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/delete`` which controls the deletion of
  messages

These mailbox annotations specify the age(in days) of messages in the
given mailbox that should be expired/archived/deleted.

The value of the ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation is
inherited by all children of the mailbox on which it is set, so an
entire mailbox tree can be configured by setting a single annotation on
the root of that tree.  If a mailbox does not have a
``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation set on it (or does not
inherit one), then no messages are expired from the mailbox.

The annotation can be examined using the **info** command of
:cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`, and modified using the **mboxconfig** and
**setinfo** commands of :cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`.

Expiration of duplicate delivery database entries for a given mailbox
is also controlled by the ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation
which applies to that mailbox.  A value of 0 on the annotation means
that no expiration is to be performed on that mailbox. Unlike message expiration, if no
annotation applies to the mailbox then duplicate database entries are
expired using the value given to the **-E** option.

Expiration of conversations database entries occurs if the
**conversations** option is present in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`.
Expiration can be disabled using the **-c** option.  The period used to
expire entries is controlled by the **conversations_expire_days**
option in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`.

**cyr_expire** |default-conf-text|

**cyr_expire** requires at least one of **-A -D -E -X** or **-t** to be
supplied.

Options
=======

.. program:: cyr_expire

.. option:: -C config-file

    |cli-dash-c-text|

.. option:: -A archive-duration

    Archive non-flagged messages older than *archive-duration* to the
    archive partition, allowing mailbox messages to be split between fast
    storage and slow large storage.  Only does anything if
    ``archivepartition-*`` has been set in your config.
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a
    corresponding ``/vendonr/cmu/cyrus-imapd/archive`` mailbox annotation.

    |v3-new-feature|

.. option:: -D delete-duration

    Remove previously deleted mailboxes older than *delete-duration*
    (when using the "delayed" delete mode).
    The value can be a floating point number, and may have a suffix to
    specify the unit of time.  If no suffix, the value is number of days.
    Valid suffixes are **d** (days), **h** (hours), **m** (minutes) and
    **s** (seconds).
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a
    corresponding ``/verdor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/delete`` mailbox annotation.

.. option:: -E expire-duration

    Prune the duplicate database of entries older than *expire-duration*.
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a corresponding
    ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` mailbox annotation.
    Format is the same as delete-duration.

.. option:: -X expunge-duration

    Expunge previously deleted messages older than *expunge-duration*
    (when using the "delayed" expunge mode).
    Format is the same as delete-duration.

.. option:: -c

    Do not expire conversation database entries, even if the conversations
    feature is enabled.

    |v3-new-feature|

.. option:: -x

    Do not expunge messages even if using delayed expunge mode.  This
    reduces IO traffic considerably, allowing ``cyr_expire`` to be run
    frequently to clean up the duplicate database without overloading
    the machine.

.. option:: -p mailbox-prefix

    Only find mailboxes starting with this prefix,  e.g.
    "user.justgotspammedlots".

.. option:: -u userid

    Only find mailboxes belonging to this user,  e.g.
    "justgotspammedlots@example.com".

.. option:: -t

    Remove any user flags which are not used by remaining (not expunged)
    messages.

.. option:: -v

    Enable verbose output.

.. option:: -a

    Skip the annotation lookup, so all ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire``
    annotations are ignored entirely.  It behaves as if they were not
    set, so only *expire-days* is considered for all mailboxes.

Examples
========

.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire -E** *3* **-D** *60* **-X** *60*

..

        Purge duplicates database of all entries older than *3* days, remove
        deleted mailboxes older than *60* days and deleted messages older than
        *60* days.


.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire -x -c -A** *7d*

..

        Perform migration of message older than *7* days to Archive
        partition whilst not altering conversation database nor
        expunging messages.

History
=======

Archive partition and conversation support was first introduced in Cyrus
version 3.0.

Files
=====

/etc/imapd.conf

See Also
========

:cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`, :cyrusman:`master(8)`, :cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`

Commit message:

cyr_expire: expire JMAP notification
Signed-off-by: Robert Stepanek <rsto@fastmailteam.com>

docsrc/imap/reference/manpages/systemcommands/cyr_expire.rst, after:

.. cyrusman:: cyr_expire(8)

.. author: Nic Bernstein (Onlight)
.. author: Jeroen van Meeuwen (Kolab Systems)

.. _imap-reference-manpages-systemcommands-cyr_expire:

==============
**cyr_expire**
==============

Expire messages and duplicate delivery database entries

Synopsis
========

.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire** [ **-C** *config-file* ] [ **-A** *archive-duration* ]
    [ **-D** *delete-duration* ] [ **-E** *expire-duration* ] [ **-X** *expunge-duration* ]
    [ **-p** *mailbox-pre‐fix* ] [ **-u** *username* ] [ **-t** ] [ **-v** ]
    [ **-a** ] [ **-c** ] [ **-x** ]
    [ **-L** or **--longlock** *lock-duration*]
    [ **--jmap-notif** *delete-duration*]

Description
===========

**cyr_expire** is used to run a number of regular maintenance tasks
on Cyrus databases, specifically:

- expire messages from mailboxes, and
- expire entries from the duplicate delivery database, and
- cleanse mailboxes of partially expunged messages (when using the "delayed" expunge mode), and
- remove deleted mailboxes (when using the "delayed" delete mode), and
- expire entries from conversations databases, and
- archive messages from mailbox, and
- delete stale JMAP notifications.

There are various annotations that **cyr_expire** respects:

- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` which controls the expirations of
  messages
- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/archive`` which controls the archival of
  messages
- ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/delete`` which controls the deletion of
  messages

These mailbox annotations specify the age(in days) of messages in the
given mailbox that should be expired/archived/deleted.

The value of the ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation is
inherited by all children of the mailbox on which it is set, so an
entire mailbox tree can be configured by setting a single annotation on
the root of that tree.  If a mailbox does not have a
``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation set on it (or does not
inherit one), then no messages are expired from the mailbox.

The annotation can be examined using the **info** command of
:cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`, and modified using the **mboxconfig** and
**setinfo** commands of :cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`.

Expiration of duplicate delivery database entries for a given mailbox
is also controlled by the ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` annotation
which applies to that mailbox.  A value of 0 on the annotation means
that no expiration is to be performed on that mailbox. Unlike message expiration, if no
annotation applies to the mailbox then duplicate database entries are
expired using the value given to the **-E** option.

Expiration of conversations database entries occurs if the
**conversations** option is present in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`.
Expiration can be disabled using the **-c** option.  The period used to
expire entries is controlled by the **conversations_expire_days**
option in :cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`.

**cyr_expire** |default-conf-text|

**cyr_expire** requires at least one of **-A -D -E -X** or **-t** to be
supplied.

Options
=======

.. program:: cyr_expire

.. option:: -C config-file

    |cli-dash-c-text|

.. option:: -A archive-duration

    Archive non-flagged messages older than *archive-duration* to the
    archive partition, allowing mailbox messages to be split between fast
    storage and slow large storage.  Only does anything if
    ``archivepartition-*`` has been set in your config.
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a
    corresponding ``/vendonr/cmu/cyrus-imapd/archive`` mailbox annotation.

    |v3-new-feature|

.. option:: -D delete-duration

    Remove previously deleted mailboxes older than *delete-duration*
    (when using the "delayed" delete mode).
    The value can be a floating point number, and may have a suffix to
    specify the unit of time.  If no suffix, the value is number of days.
    Valid suffixes are **d** (days), **h** (hours), **m** (minutes) and
    **s** (seconds).
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a
    corresponding ``/verdor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/delete`` mailbox annotation.

.. option:: -E expire-duration

    Prune the duplicate database of entries older than *expire-duration*.
    This value is only used for entries which do not have a corresponding
    ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire`` mailbox annotation.
    Format is the same as delete-duration.

.. option:: -X expunge-duration

    Expunge previously deleted messages older than *expunge-duration*
    (when using the "delayed" expunge mode).
    Format is the same as delete-duration.

.. option:: -c

    Do not expire conversation database entries, even if the conversations
    feature is enabled.

    |v3-new-feature|

.. option:: -x

    Do not expunge messages even if using delayed expunge mode.  This
    reduces IO traffic considerably, allowing ``cyr_expire`` to be run
    frequently to clean up the duplicate database without overloading
    the machine.

.. option:: -p mailbox-prefix

    Only find mailboxes starting with this prefix,  e.g.
    "user.justgotspammedlots".

.. option:: -u userid

    Only find mailboxes belonging to this user,  e.g.
    "justgotspammedlots@example.com".

.. option:: -t

    Remove any user flags which are not used by remaining (not expunged)
    messages.

.. option:: -v

    Enable verbose output.

.. option:: -a

    Skip the annotation lookup, so all ``/vendor/cmu/cyrus-imapd/expire``
    annotations are ignored entirely.  It behaves as if they were not
    set, so only *expire-days* is considered for all mailboxes.

.. option:: --jmap-notif delete-duration

    Delete JMAP notifications that are older than delete-duration seconds.

    |v3-new-feature|

.. option:: -L --longlock lock-duration

    Lock a mailbox at most lock-duration seconds. Expunging and deleting
    mailbox entries requires an exclusive lock on the mailbox, and
    client requests may block until the lock is released. This option
    allows avoiding other processes to wait excessively long for large
    mailboxes. The minimum lock-duration value are two seconds.
    Remaining work is left until the next execution of cyr_expire.

    This option only is supported for jmap.

    |v3-new-feature|


Examples
========

.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire -E** *3* **-D** *60* **-X** *60*

..

        Purge duplicates database of all entries older than *3* days, remove
        deleted mailboxes older than *60* days and deleted messages older than
        *60* days.


.. parsed-literal::

    **cyr_expire -x -c -A** *7d*

..

        Perform migration of message older than *7* days to Archive
        partition whilst not altering conversation database nor
        expunging messages.

History
=======

Archive partition and conversation support was first introduced in Cyrus
version 3.0.

Files
=====

/etc/imapd.conf

See Also
========

:cyrusman:`imapd.conf(5)`, :cyrusman:`master(8)`, :cyrusman:`cyradm(8)`
