:tocdepth: 3

====================================
Cyrus IMAP 3.0.0 rc2 Release Notes
====================================

.. WARNING::

    Cyrus IMAP 3.0 is under active development, and subject to change.

    Do **NOT** use this version unless you're a developer of sorts.

Download via HTTP:

    *   http://www.cyrusimap.org/releases/cyrus-imapd-3.0.0-rc2.tar.gz
    *   http://www.cyrusimap.org/releases/cyrus-imapd-3.0.0-rc2.tar.gz.sig

Download via FTP:

    *   ftp://ftp.cyrusimap.org/cyrus-imapd/cyrus-imapd-3.0.0-rc2.tar.gz
    *   ftp://ftp.cyrusimap.org/cyrus-imapd/cyrus-imapd-3.0.0-rc2.tar.gz.sig

.. _relnotes-3.0.0-rc2-changes:

Major changes since the 2.5.x series
====================================

*   The source repository has moved to :ref:`GitHub <github-guide>`, Bugzilla and Phabricator
    have been deprecated.  Their issue lists are being imported into GitHub.

*   Support added for FastMail-style conversations (threaded messages).
    (See the ``conversations`` options in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`)

*   Optional Xapian_ integration for faster and shinier search. Note that this requires custom
    patches to Xapian, in this release. (See the ``search_engine`` option in
    :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`, and ``doc/README.xapian`` in the
    source distribution.)) Compiling Xapian support requires gcc 4.9 or later.

*   Archive support has arrived! Requires addition of an archive partition. (See ``archive_*``
    options in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`)

*   Basic JMAP_ support. (See ``httpmodules`` in
    :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`)

*   ClamAV_ integration for AntiVirus support is now working again.

*   Dropped support for Berkeley DB.

*   The handling of configure options has changed, dropping support for
    ``--with-cyrus-prefix`` and ``--with-service-path`` in favour of the more conventional
    ``--prefix``, ``--bindir``, ``--sbindir``, and ``--libexecdir``.

*   Binaries executed by the :ref:`master(8) <imap-reference-manpages-systemcommands-master>`
    service process are now installed to ``--libexecdir``.  Other binaries are installed to
    ``--bindir`` and/or ``--sbindir``.

    The ``make installbinsymlinks`` target can be used to set up symlinks to everything in
    ``--bindir``, if you need that in your environment.

*   Added support for replicating mailboxes/users to a particular partition.  ``sync_client``
    now accepts a ``-p`` option.

*   The ``defaultdomain`` setting in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`
    now defaults to "internal" (was: NULL)

*   Added experimental backup service.  See :ref:`Cyrus Backups <cyrus-backups>`

*   Support for Apple's Push service (XAPPLEPUSH).  See :ref:`Cyrus Eventsource <cyrus-eventsource>`

*   Sieve now supports special use folders.  See :ref:`Cyrus Sieve <cyrus-sieve-specialuse>`

*   Sieve now supports the following :ref:`extensions <cyrus-sieve-extensions>`:

    * :rfc:`5490` Checking Mailbox Status and Accessing Mailbox Metadata
    * :rfc:`5229` Variables

*   Sieve bytecode is now automatically recompiled when it is detected to be missing or out of date

*   New numeric header available for sorting: X-Spam-Score

*   Added IMIP notification support to :ref:`notifyd(8) <imap-reference-manpages-systemcommands-notifyd>`.
    See ``imipnotifier`` in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`

*   Optimised CRC32 implementation

*   Added support for reverse ACLs, enabling faster LIST response.  See ``reverseacls`` in
    :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`

*   Added cross-domain sharing support.  See ``crossdomains`` and ``crossdomains_onlyother``
    in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`

*   Added experimental object storage for mail data, with preliminary support for OpenIO and
    Caringo backends.  See configure.ac ``--enable-objectstore``, and the ``object_storage_*``,
    ``openio_*`` and ``caringo_*`` options in
    :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`.

*   Configurable POP3 UIDL format for compatibility with other mail servers.  Supports
    Courier Mail Server and Dovecot formats, in addition to Cyrus formats.  See ``uidl_format``
    in :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`

*   Under ``delete_mode: delayed``, only the 20 most recently deleted mailboxes are kept
    for any given name.

*   Documentation cleanup: we are moving toward having a single restructured text source for man
    pages and html/text documentation, which are pre-generated for inclusion in release tarballs.
    If you wish to rebuild these, or are building from a git clone in which they are not
    pregenerated, you will need to install ``sphinx-build``, and the perl module
    ``Pod::POM::View::Restructured``.  The top level Makefile now has ``man`` and ``doc`` targets
    for building these.

*   Added support for OpenSSL 1.1.0.

*   Replication now supports incremental partial updates, so massive updates (such as
    mail imports) won't stall replication for other users.  See ``sync_batchsize`` in
    :ref:`imapd.conf <imap-reference-manpages-configs-imapd.conf>`

*   The mailbox cache minor version has been incremented to store a GUID for each body part.

Updates to default configuration
================================

*   ``unixhierarchysep`` (``/``) is now ``on`` by default (instead of netnews style ``.``)

*   ``altnamespace`` is now ``on`` by default (was ``off``)

*   ``virtdomains`` is now ``userid`` by default (was ``off``)

Significant bugfixes
====================

*   Lots of fixes to caldav and carddav.

    Includes the addition of a new daemon (calalarmd) which periodically processes a global
    database containing the "next" alarm for each item, and sends the relevant mboxevents.
    (See configure.ac ``--with-calalarmd``)

*   Replication reliability fixes.

*   Improved ``LIST-EXTENDED``: more imap tests now succeed.

*   Extensive cleanup of mailbox name handling

*   ``master`` now requests a sane maximum number of open file descriptors, and only
    complains if this isn't allowed.

*   Fixes to compiling on Solaris (thanks Jens Erat, Marty Lee)

*   Improved handling of mailbox renames during replication


.. _Xapian: https://xapian.org
.. _ClamAV: https://www.clamav.net
.. _JMAP: http://jmap.io
