:tocdepth: 3

===============================
Cyrus IMAP 2.5.12 Release Notes
===============================

.. IMPORTANT::

    This is a bug-fix release in the `stable 2.5 series <http://www.cyrusimap.org/stable>`_.

    Refer to the Cyrus IMAP 2.5.0 Release Notes for important information
    about the 2.5 series, including upgrading instructions.

Download via HTTPS:

    * https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-2.5.12/cyrus-imapd-2.5.12.tar.gz
    * https://github.com/cyrusimap/cyrus-imapd/releases/download/cyrus-imapd-2.5.12/cyrus-imapd-2.5.12.tar.gz.sig

.. _relnotes-2.5.12-changes:

Changes Since 2.5.11
====================

Release changes
---------------

We’re trialing using the Github Releases feature. If you have trouble
downloading this release, please report this to the mailing lists. Thanks!

Dependency changes
------------------

ClamAV now configures and builds correctly, using pkg-config for detection.
You can use the ``--without-clamav`` option to configure if you have ClamAV
installed but do *not* want to build Cyrus with support for it.  The old
``--with-clamav=DIR`` variant no longer works (but it also didn't work before!)

Cyrus should now build cleanly with LibreSSL 2.7 (thanks Bernard Spil).

Other changes
-------------

* Cyrus release version is now preserved across autoreconf runs.  This means
  it is now safe to run autoreconf on a release tarball source tree.

Bug fixes
---------

* Fixed: cyr_virusscan now integrates with event notifications properly
* Fixed: mailbox expunge event notifications no longer cause a crash
* Fixed :issue:`2378`: ACLs containing spaces no longer break mailboxes.db
* Fixed :issue:`2253`: master now rejects unix domain listen paths that are too
  long
* Fixed: smilint warnings for CYRUS-MASTER.mib fixed (thanks Fabrice Bacchella)
* Fixed :issue:`2177`: backend connections no longer ignore STARTTLS failures
  (thanks Wolfgang Breyha)
* Fixed :issue:`2222`: dav_reconstruct no longer crashes on expunged entries
* Fixed :issue:`2221`: dav_reconstruct no longer crashes given bad user id
  (thanks Wolfgang Breyha)
* Fixed: tls_prune memory leak
* Fixed: tls_prune doesn't fail when tls_sessions.db is missing
* Fixed :issue:`2199`: recovery from mupdate failure now in correct order
  (thanks Michael Menge)
* Fixed: backend connections no longer crash if no banner found
* Fixed: backend connections no longer return success on certain types of failure
* Fixed :issue:`2185`: squatter no longer tries to index non-IMAP mailboxes
  (thanks Wolfgang Breyha)
* Fixed: special-use proxying in murder (thanks Wolfgang Breyha)
* Fixed :issue:`1090`: send OK NIL to subsequent ID commands
* Fixed :issue:`1434`: auth_pts will now error when given a too-long socket file name
* Fixed :issue:`1964`: correctly detect when librt is needed
* Fixed :issue:`1967`: tell EXISTS count earlier when needed
* Fixed: memory leak in httpd DAV support
